<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Book of Common Prayer - 1928</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/bcp.css" />
</head>

<body>
  <h2 title="Additional Prayers" class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_8">ADDITIONAL PRAYERS.</h2>

  <p class="centered italic">For the Spirit of&nbsp;Prayer.</p>

  <p>ALMIGHTY God, who pourest out on all who desire it, the spirit of grace and of supplication; Deliver us, when we draw nigh to thee, from coldness of heart and wanderings of mind, that with stedfast thoughts and kindled affections, we may worship thee in spirit and in truth; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.</p>

  <p class="centered italic">In the Morning.</p>

  <p>O GOD, the King eternal, who dividest the day from the darkness, and turnest the shadow of death into the morning; Drive far off from us all wrong desires, incline our hearts to keep thy law, and guide our feet into the way of peace; that having done thy will with cheerfulness while it was day, we may, when the night cometh, rejoice to give thee thanks; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.</p>

  <p>ALMIGHTY God, who alone gavest us the breath of life, and alone canst keep alive in us the holy desires thou dost impart; We beseech thee, for thy compassion’s sake, to sanctify all our thoughts and endeavours; that we may neither begin an action without a pure intention nor continue it without thy blessing. And grant that, having the eyes of the mind opened to behold things invisible and unseen, we may in heart be inspired by thy wisdom, and in work be upheld by thy strength, and in the end be accepted of thee as thy faithful servants; through Jesus Christ our Saviour. Amen.</p>

  <p class="centered italic">At Night.</p>

  <p>O LORD, support us all the day long, until the shadows lengthen and the evening comes, and the busy world is hushed, and the fever of life is over, and our work is done. Then in thy mercy grant us a safe lodging, and a holy rest, and peace at the last. Amen.</p>

  <p>O GOD, who art the life of mortal men, the light of the faithful, the strength of those who labour, and the repose of the dead; We thank thee for the timely blessings of the day, and humbly supplicate thy merciful protection all this night. Bring us, we beseech thee, in safety to the morning hours; through him who died for us and rose again, thy Son, our Saviour Jesus Christ. Amen.</p>

  <p class="centered italic">Sunday Morning.</p>

  <p>O GOD, who makest us glad with the weekly remembrance of the glorious resurrection of thy Son our Lord; Vouchsafe us this day such blessing through our worship of thee, that the days to come may be spent in thy service; through the same Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.</p>

  <p class="centered italic">For Quiet Confidence.</p>

  <p>O GOD of peace, who hast taught us that in returning and rest we shall be saved, in quietness and in confidence shall be our strength; By the might of thy Spirit lift us, we pray thee, to thy presence, where we may be still and know that thou art God; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.</p>

  <p class="centered italic">For Guidance.</p>

  <p>O GOD, by whom the meek are guided in judgment, and light riseth up in darkness for the godly; Grant us, in all our doubts and uncertainties, the grace to ask what thou wouldest have us to do, that the Spirit of Wisdom may save us from all false choices, and that in thy light we may see light, and in thy straight path may not stumble; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.</p>

  <p class="centered italic">For Trustfulness.</p>

  <p>O MOST loving Father, who willest us to give thanks for all things, to dread nothing but the loss of thee, and to cast all our care on thee, who carest for us; Preserve us from faithless fears and worldly anxieties, and grant that no clouds of this mortal life may hide from us the light of that love which is immortal, and which thou hast manifested unto us in thy Son, Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.</p>

  <p>O HEAVENLY Father, thou understandest all thy children; through thy gift of faith we bring our perplexities to the light of thy wisdom, and receive the blessed encouragement of thy sympathy, and a clearer knowledge of thy will. Glory be to thee for all thy gracious gifts. Amen.</p>

  <p class="centered italic">For Joy in God’s&nbsp;Creation.</p>

  <p>O HEAVENLY Father, who hast filled the world with beauty; Open, we beseech thee, our eyes to behold thy gracious hand in all thy works; that rejoicing in thy whole creation, we may learn to serve thee with gladness; for the sake of him by whom all things were made, thy Son, Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.</p>

  <p class="centered italic">For the Children.</p>

  <p>ALMIGHTY God, heavenly Father, who hast blessed us with the joy and care of children; Give us light and strength so to train them, that they may love whatsoever things are true and pure and lovely and of good report, following the example of their Saviour Jesus Christ. Amen.</p>

  <p class="centered italic">For the Absent.</p>

  <p>O GOD, whose fatherly care reacheth to the uttermost parts of the earth; We humbly beseech thee graciously to behold and bless those whom we love, now absent from us. Defend them from all dangers of soul and body; and grant that both they and we, drawing nearer to thee, may be bound together by thy love in the communion of thy Holy Spirit, and in the fellowship of thy saints; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.</p>

  <p class="centered italic">For Those We&nbsp;Love.</p>

  <p>ALMIGHTY God, we entrust all who are dear to us to thy never-failing care and love, for this life and the life to come; knowing that thou art doing for them better things than we can desire or pray for; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.</p>

  <p class="centered italic">For the Recovery of a&nbsp;Sick&nbsp;Person.</p>

  <p>O MERCIFUL God, giver of life and health; Bless, we pray thee, thy servant, [<i>N.</i>], and those who administer to <i>him</i> of thy healing gifts; that <i>he</i> may be restored to health of body and of mind; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.</p>

  <p class="centered italic">For One about to undergo an&nbsp;Operation.</p>

  <p>ALMIGHTY God our heavenly Father, we beseech thee graciously to comfort thy servant in <i>his</i> suffering, and to bless the means made use of for <i>his</i> cure. Fill <i>his</i> heart with confidence, that though <i>he</i> be sometime afraid, <i>he</i> yet may put <i>his</i> trust in thee; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.</p>

  <p class="centered italic">For a Birthday.</p>

  <p>WATCH over thy child, O Lord, as <i>his</i> days increase; bless and guide <i>him</i> wherever <i>he</i> may be, keeping <i>him</i> unspotted from the world. Strengthen <i>him</i> when <i>he</i> stands; comfort <i>him</i> when discouraged or sorrowful; raise <i>him</i> up if <i>he</i> fall; and in <i>his</i> heart may thy peace which passeth understanding abide all the days of <i>his</i> life; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.</p>

  <p class="centered italic">For an Anniversary of One&nbsp;Departed.</p>

  <p>ALMIGHTY God, we remember this day before thee thy faithful servant [<i>N.</i>], and we pray thee that, having opened to <i>him</i> the gates of larger life, thou wilt receive <i>him</i> more and more into thy joyful service; that <i>he</i> may win, with thee and thy servants everywhere, the eternal victory; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.</p>

  <p class="centered italic">For Those in Mental&nbsp;Darkness.</p>

  <p>O HEAVENLY Father, we beseech thee to have mercy upon all thy children who are living in mental darkness. Restore them to strength of mind and cheerfulness of spirit, and give them health and peace; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.</p>

  <p class="centered italic">For a Blessing on the Families of&nbsp;the&nbsp;Land.</p>

  <p>ALMIGHTY God, our heavenly Father, who settest the solitary in families; We commend to thy continual care the homes in which thy people dwell. Put far from them, we beseech thee, every root of bitterness, the desire of vain-glory, and the pride of life. Fill them with faith, virtue, knowledge, temperance, patience, godliness. Knit together in constant affection those who, in holy wedlock, have been made one flesh; turn the heart of the fathers to the children, and the heart of the children to the fathers; and so enkindle fervent charity among us all, that we be evermore kindly affectioned with brotherly love; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.</p>

  <p class="centered italic">For all Poor, Homeless, and Neglected&nbsp;Folk.</p>

  <p>O GOD, Almighty and merciful, who healest those that are broken in heart, and turnest the sadness of the sorrowful to joy; Let thy fatherly goodness be upon all that thou hast made. Remember in pity such as are this day destitute, homeless, or forgotten of their fellow-men. Bless the congregation of thy poor. Uplift those who are cast down. Mightily befriend innocent sufferers, and sanctify to them the endurance of their wrongs. Cheer with hope all discouraged and unhappy people, and by thy heavenly grace preserve from falling those whose penury tempteth them to sin; though they be troubled on every side, suffer them not to be distressed; though they be perplexed, save them from despair. Grant this, O Lord, for the love of him, who for our sakes became poor, thy Son, our Saviour Jesus Christ. Amen.</p>

  <p class="centered italic">For Faithfulness in the Use of this World’s&nbsp;Goods.</p>

  <p>ALMIGHTY God, whose loving hand hath given us all that we possess; Grant us grace that we may honour thee with our substance, and remembering the account which we must one day give, may be faithful stewards of thy bounty; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.</p>

  <p class="centered italic">A General Intercession.</p>

  <p>O GOD, at whose word man goeth forth to his work and to his labour until the evening; Be merciful to all whose duties are difficult or burdensome, and comfort them concerning their toil. Shield from bodily accident and harm the workmen at their work. Protect the efforts of sober and honest industry, and suffer not the hire of the labourers to be kept back by fraud. Incline the heart of employers and of those whom they employ to mutual forbearance, fairness, and goodwill. Give the spirit of governance and of a sound mind to all in places of authority. Bless all those who labour in works of mercy or in schools of good learning. Care for all aged persons, and all little children, the sick and the afflicted, and those who travel by land or by sea. Remember all who by reason of weakness are overtasked, or because of poverty are forgotten. Let the sorrowful sighing of the prisoners come before thee; and according to the greatness of thy power, preserve thou those that are appointed to die. Give ear unto our prayer, O merciful and gracious Father, for the love of thy dear Son, our Saviour Jesus Christ. Amen.</p>

  <p class="centered italic">Grace before Meat.</p>

  <p>BLESS, O Father, thy gifts to our use and us to thy service; for Christ’s sake. Amen.</p>

  <p>GIVE us grateful hearts, our Father, for all thy mercies, and make us mindful of the needs of others; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.</p>
</body>
</html>
