<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Book of Common Prayer - 1928</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/bcp.css" />
</head>

<body>
  <h3 title="Lenten Season" class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_2">LENTEN SEASON</h3>

  <h3 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_3">The first day of Lent, commonly called Ash&nbsp;Wednesday.</h3>

  <p class="centered italic">The Collect.</p>

  <p>ALMIGHTY and everlasting God, who hatest nothing that thou hast made, and dost forgive the sins of all those who are penitent; Create and make in us new and contrite hearts, that we, worthily lamenting our sins and acknowledging our wretchedness, may obtain of thee, the God of all mercy, perfect remission and forgiveness; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>This Collect is to be said every day in Lent, after the Collect appointed for the day, until Palm Sunday.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p class="centered"><i>For the Epistle.</i> Joel ii. 12.</p>

  <p>TURN ye even to me, saith the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, with all your heart, and with fasting, and with weeping, and with mourning: and rend your heart, and not your garments, and turn unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> your God: for he is gracious and merciful, slow to anger, and of great kindness, and repenteth him of the evil. Who knoweth if he will return and repent, and leave a blessing behind him; even a meat-offering and a drink-offering unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> your God? Blow the trumpet in Zion, sanctify a fast, call a solemn assembly: gather the people, sanctify the congregation, assemble the elders, gather the children, and those that suck the breasts: let the bridegroom go forth of his chamber, and the bride out of her closet. Let the priests, the ministers of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, weep between the porch and the altar, and let them say, Spare thy people, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, and give not thine heritage to reproach, that the heathen should rule over them: wherefore should they say among the people, Where is their God?</p>

  <p class="centered"><i>The Gospel.</i> St. Matthew vi. 16.</p>

  <p>WHEN ye fast, be not, as the hypocrites, of a sad countenance: for they disfigure their faces, that they may appear unto men to fast. Verily I say unto you, They have their reward. But thou, when thou fastest, anoint thine head, and wash thy face; that thou appear not unto men to fast, but unto thy Father which is in secret: and thy Father, which seeth in secret, shall reward thee openly. Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth and rust doth corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal: but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break through nor steal: for where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>The same Collect, Epistle, and Gospel shall serve for every day after, unto the next Sunday, except upon the Feast of St. Matthias.</i></li>
  </ul>
</body>
</html>
