<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Book of Common Prayer - 1928</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/bcp.css" />
</head>

<body>
  <h1 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_2">The Ministration of Holy&nbsp;Baptism</h1>

  <ul>
    <li><i>The Minister of every Parish shall often admonish the People, that they defer not the Baptism of their Children, and that it is most convenient that Baptism should be administered upon Sundays and other Holy Days. Nevertheless, if necessity so require, Baptism may be administered upon any other day. And also he shall warn them that, except for urgent cause, they seek not to have their Children baptized in their houses.</i></li>

    <li><i>There shall be for every Male-child to be baptized, when they can be had, two Godfathers and one Godmother; and for every Female, one Godfather and two Godmothers; and Parents shall be admitted as Sponsors, if it be desired.</i></li>

    <li><i>When there are Children to be baptized, the Parents or Sponsors shall give knowledge thereof to the Minister. And then the Godfathers and Godmothers, and the People with the Children, must be ready at the Font, either immediately after the Second Lesson at Morning or Evening Prayer, or at such other time as the Minister shall appoint.</i></li>

    <li><i>When any such Persons as are of riper years are to be baptized, timely notice shall be given to the Minister, that so due care may be taken for their examination, whether they be sufficiently instructed in the Principles of the Christian Religion; and that they may be exhorted to prepare themselves, with Prayers and Fasting, for the receiving of this holy Sacrament. And N<span class="smallcaps">ote</span>, That at the time of the Baptism of an Adult, there shall be present with him at the Font at least two Witnesses.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <ul>
    <li><i>The Minister, having come to the Font, which is then to be filled with pure Water, shall say as followeth, the People all standing,</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>HATH this <i>Child</i> (<i>Person</i>) been already baptized, or no?</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>If they answer, No: then shall the Minister proceed as followeth.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>DEARLY beloved, forasmuch as our Saviour Christ saith, None can enter into the kingdom of God, except he be regenerate and born anew of Water and of the Holy Ghost; I beseech you to call upon God the Father, through our Lord Jesus Christ, that of his bounteous mercy he will grant to <i>this Child</i> (<i>this Person</i>) that which by nature <i>he</i> cannot have; that <i>he</i> may be baptized with Water and the Holy Ghost, and received into Christ’s holy Church, and be made a living member of the same.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Then shall the Minister say,</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>Let us pray.</p>

  <p>ALMIGHTY and immortal God, the aid of all who need, the helper of all who flee to thee for succour, the life of those who believe, and the resurrection of the dead; We call upon thee for <i>this Child</i> (<i>this thy Servant</i>), that <i>he</i>, coming to thy holy Baptism, may receive remission of sin, by spiritual regeneration. Receive <i>him</i>, O Lord, as thou hast promised by thy well-beloved Son, saying, Ask, and ye shall have; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you. So give now unto us who ask; let us who seek, find; open the gate unto us who knock; that <i>this Child</i> (<i>this thy Servant</i>) may enjoy the everlasting benediction of thy heavenly washing, and may come to the eternal kingdom which thou hast promised by Christ our Lord. Amen.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Then the Minister shall say as followeth.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>Hear the words of the Gospel, written by Saint Mark, in the tenth Chapter, at the thirteenth Verse.</p>

  <p>THEY brought young children to Christ, that he should touch them: and his disciples rebuked those that brought them. But when Jesus saw it, he was much displeased, and said unto them, Suffer the little children to come unto me, and forbid them not: for of such is the kingdom of God. Verily I say unto you, Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child, he shall not enter therein. And he took them up in his arms, put his hands upon them, and blessed them.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Or this.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>Hear the words of the Gospel, written by Saint John, in the third Chapter, at the first Verse.</p>

  <p>THERE was a man of the Pharisees, named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews: the same came to Jesus by night, and said unto him, Rabbi, we know that thou art a teacher come from God: for no man can do these miracles that thou doest, except God be with him. Jesus answered and said unto him, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Nicodemus saith unto him, How can a man be born when he is old? can he enter the second time into his mother’s womb, and be born? Jesus answered, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God. That which is born of the flesh is flesh; and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit. Marvel not that I said unto thee, Ye must be born again. The wind bloweth where it listeth, and thou hearest the sound thereof, but canst not tell whence it cometh, and whither it goeth: so is every one that is born of the Spirit.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Or this.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>Hear the words of the Gospel, written by Saint Matthew, in the twenty-eighth Chapter, at the eighteenth Verse.</p>

  <p>JESUS came and spake unto them, saying, All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth. Go ye therefore, and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost: teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you: and, lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Then shall the Minister say,</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>AND now, being persuaded of the good will of our heavenly Father toward <i>this Child</i> (<i>this Person</i>), declared by his Son Jesus Christ; let us faithfully and devoutly give thanks unto him, and say,</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Minister and People.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>ALMIGHTY and everlasting God, heavenly Father, We give thee humble thanks, That thou hast vouchsafed to call us to the knowledge of thy grace, and faith in thee: Increase this knowledge, And confirm this faith in us evermore. Give thy Holy Spirit to <i>this Child</i> (<i>this thy Servant</i>), That <i>he</i> may be born again, And be made an heir of everlasting salvation; Through our Lord Jesus Christ, Who liveth and reigneth with thee and the same Holy Spirit, Now and for ever. Amen.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>When the Office is used for Children, the Minister shall speak unto the Godfathers and Godmothers on this wise.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>DEARLY beloved, ye have brought this Child here to be baptized; ye have prayed that our Lord Jesus Christ would vouchsafe to receive <i>him</i>, to release <i>him</i> from sin, to sanctify <i>him</i> with the Holy Ghost, to give <i>him</i> the kingdom of heaven, and everlasting life.</p>

  <p class="versicle">Dost thou, therefore, in the name of this Child, renounce the devil and all his works, the vain pomp and glory of the world, with all covetous desires of the same, and the sinful desires of the flesh, so that thou wilt not follow, nor be led by them?</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> I renounce them all; and, by God’s help, will endeavour not to follow, nor be led by them.</p>

  <p class="versicle"><i>Minister.</i> Dost thou believe all the Articles of the Christian Faith, as contained in the Apostles’ Creed?</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> I do.</p>

  <p class="versicle"><i>Minister.</i> Wilt thou be baptized in this Faith?</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> That is my desire.</p>

  <p class="versicle"><i>Minister.</i> Wilt thou then obediently keep God’s holy will and commandments, and walk in the same all the days of thy life?</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> I will, by God’s help.</p>

  <p class="versicle"><i>Minister.</i> Having now, in the name of this Child, made these promises, wilt thou also on thy part take heed that this Child learn the Creed, the Lord’s Prayer, and the Ten Commandments, and all other things which a Christian ought to know and believe to <i>his</i> soul’s health?</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> I will, by God’s help.</p>

  <p class="versicle"><i>Minister.</i> Wilt thou take heed that this Child, so soon as sufficiently instructed, be brought to the Bishop to be confirmed by him?</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> I will, God being my helper.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>When the Office is used for Adults, the Minister shall address them on this wise, the Persons to be baptized answering the questions for themselves.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>WELL-BELOVED, you have come hither desiring to receive holy Baptism. We have prayed that our Lord Jesus Christ would vouchsafe to receive you, to release you from sin, to sanctify you with the Holy Ghost, to give you the kingdom of heaven, and everlasting life.</p>

  <p class="versicle">DOST thou renounce the devil and all his works, the vain pomp and glory of the world, with all covetous desires of the same, and the sinful desires of the flesh, so that thou wilt not follow, nor be led by them?</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> I renounce them all; and, by God’s help, will endeavour not to follow, nor be led by them.</p>

  <p class="versicle"><i>Minister.</i> Dost thou believe in Jesus the Christ, the Son of the Living God?</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> I do.</p>

  <p class="versicle"><i>Minister.</i> Dost thou accept him, and desire to follow him as thy Saviour and Lord?</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> I do.</p>

  <p class="versicle"><i>Minister.</i> Dost thou believe all the Articles of the Christian Faith, as contained in the Apostles’ Creed?</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> I do.</p>

  <p class="versicle"><i>Minister.</i> Wilt thou be baptized in this Faith?</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> That is my desire.</p>

  <p class="versicle"><i>Minister.</i> Wilt thou then obediently keep God’s holy will and commandments, and walk in the same all the days of thy life?</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> I will, by God’s help.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Then shall the Minister say,</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>O MERCIFUL God, grant that like as Christ died and rose again, so <i>this Child</i> (<i>this thy Servant</i>) may die to sin and rise to newness of life. Amen.</p>

  <p>Grant that all sinful affections may die in <i>him</i>, and that all things belonging to the Spirit may live and grow in <i>him</i>. Amen.</p>

  <p>Grant that <i>he</i> may have power and strength to have victory, and to triumph, against the devil, the world, and the flesh. Amen.</p>

  <p>Grant that whosoever is here dedicated to thee by our office and ministry, may also be endued with heavenly virtues, and everlastingly rewarded, through thy mercy, O blessed Lord God, who dost live, and govern all things, world without end. Amen.</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Minister.</i> The Lord be with you.</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> And with thy spirit.</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Minister.</i> Lift up your hearts.</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> We lift them up unto the Lord.</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Minister.</i> Let us give thanks unto our Lord God.</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> It is meet and right so to do.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Then the Minister shall say,</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>IT is very meet, right, and our bounden duty, that we should give thanks unto thee, O Lord, Holy Father, Almighty, Everlasting God, for that thy dearly beloved Son Jesus Christ, for the forgiveness of our sins, did shed out of his most precious side both water and blood; and gave commandment to his disciples, that they should go teach all nations, and baptize them In the Name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Regard, we beseech thee, the supplications of thy congregation; sanctify this Water to the mystical washing away of sin; and grant that <i>this Child</i> (<i>this thy Servant</i>), now to be baptized therein, may receive the fulness of thy grace, and ever remain in the number of thy faithful children; through the same Jesus Christ our Lord, to whom, with thee, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, be all honour and glory, now and evermore. Amen.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Then the Minister shall take the Child into his arms, and shall say to the Godfathers and Godmothers,</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>Name this Child.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>And then, naming the Child after them, he shall dip him in the Water discreetly, or shall pour Water upon him, saying,</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p><i>N</i>. I baptize thee In the Name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>But</i> <span class="smallcaps">Note</span><i>, That if the Person to be baptized be an Adult, the Minister shall take him by the hand, and shall ask the Witnesses the Name; and then shall dip him in the Water, or pour Water upon him, using the same form of words.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Then the Minister shall say,</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>WE receive this <i>Child</i> (<i>Person</i>) into the congregation of Christ’s flock; and do {<a href="../Text/Endnotes.xhtml#note_8" id="ref_8">8</a>} sign <i>him</i> with the sign of the Cross, in token that hereafter <i>he</i> shall not be ashamed to confess the faith of Christ crucified, and manfully to fight under his banner, against sin, the world, and the devil; and to continue Christ’s faithful soldier and servant unto <i>his</i> life’s end. Amen.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Then the Minister shall say,</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>SEEING now, dearly beloved brethren, that <i>this Child</i> (<i>this Person</i>) is regenerate, and grafted into the body of Christ’s Church, let us give thanks unto Almighty God for these benefits; and with one accord make our prayers unto him, that <i>this Child</i> (<i>this Person</i>) may lead the rest of <i>his</i> life according to this beginning.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Then shall be said,</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>OUR Father, who art in heaven, Hallowed be thy Name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done, On earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread. And forgive us our trespasses, As we forgive those who trespass against us. And lead us not into temptation, But deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, for ever and ever. Amen.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Then the Minister shall say,</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>WE yield thee hearty thanks, most merciful Father, that it hath pleased thee to regenerate <i>this Child</i> (<i>this thy Servant</i>) with thy Holy Spirit, to receive <i>him</i> for thine own Child, and to incorporate <i>him</i> into thy holy Church. And humbly we beseech thee to grant, that <i>he</i>, being dead unto sin, may live unto righteousness, and being buried with Christ in his death, may also be partaker of his resurrection; so that finally, with the residue of thy holy Church, <i>he</i> may be an inheritor of thine everlasting kingdom; through Christ our Lord. Amen.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Then the Minister shall add,</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>THE Almighty God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, of whom the whole family in heaven and earth is named; Grant you to be strengthened with might by his Spirit in the inner man; that, Christ dwelling in your hearts by faith, ye may be filled with all the fulness of God. Amen.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>It is expedient that every Adult, thus baptized, should be confirmed by the Bishop, so soon after his Baptism as conveniently may be; that so he may be admitted to the Holy Communion.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <h3 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_3">PRIVATE BAPTISM.</h3>

  <ul>
    <li><i>When, in consideration of extreme sickness, necessity may require, then the following form shall suffice:</i></li>

    <li><i>The Child (or Person) being named by some one who is present, the Minister shall pour Water upon him, saying these words</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p><i>N</i>. I baptize thee In the Name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>After which shall be said the Lord’s Prayer, and the Thanksgiving from this Office, beginning,</i> We yield thee hearty thanks, <i>etc.</i></li>

    <li><i>But</i> <span class="smallcaps">Note</span>, <i>That in the case of an Adult, the Minister shall first ask the questions provided in this Office for the Baptism of Adults.</i></li>

    <li><i>In cases of extreme sickness, or any imminent peril, if a Minister cannot be procured, then any baptized person present may administer holy Baptism, using the foregoing form. Such Baptism shall be promptly reported to the Parish authorities.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <h3 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_4">THE RECEIVING OF ONE PRIVATELY&nbsp;BAPTIZED.</h3>

  <ul>
    <li><i>It is expedient that a Child or Person so baptized be afterward brought to the Church, at which time these parts of the foregoing service shall be used:</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p class="small"><i>The Gospel, the Questions (omitting the question</i> Wilt thou be baptized in this Faith? <i>and the answer thereto), the Declaration,</i> We receive this Child (<i>or</i> Person)<i>, etc., and the remainder of the Office.</i></p>

  <h3 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_5">CONDITIONAL BAPTISM.</h3>

  <ul>
    <li><i>If there be reasonable doubt whether any person was baptized with Water, In the Name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, (which are essential parts of Baptism), such person may be baptized in the form before appointed in the Office; saving that, at the immersion or the pouring of water, the Minister shall use the form of words:</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>IF thou art not already baptized, <i>N</i>., I baptize thee In the Name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen.</p>
</body>
</html>
