<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Book of Common Prayer - 1928</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/bcp.css" />
</head>

<body>
  <h1 title="At the Burial of a Child" id="heading_id_2">AT THE BURIAL OF A&nbsp;CHILD.</h1>

  <ul>
    <li><i>The Minister, meeting the Body, and going before it, either into the Church or towards the Grave, shall say,</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>I AM the resurrection and the life, saith the Lord: he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live: and whosoever liveth and believeth in me, shall never die.</p>

  <p>JESUS called them unto him and said, Suffer the little children to come unto me, and forbid them not: for of such is the kingdom of God.</p>

  <p>HE shall feed his flock like a shepherd: he shall gather the lambs with his arms, and carry them in his bosom.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>When they are come into the Church, shall be said the following Psalms; and at the end of each Psalm shall be said the Gloria Patri.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p class="centered"><i>Dominus regit me.</i> Psalm&nbsp;xxiii.</p>

  <p class="psalm">THE <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> is my shepherd; * therefore can I lack nothing.</p>

  <p class="psalm">He shall feed me in a green pasture, * and lead me forth beside the waters of comfort.</p>

  <p class="psalm">He shall convert my soul, * and bring me forth in the paths of righteousness for his Name’s sake.</p>

  <p class="psalm">Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil; * for thou art with me; thy rod and thy staff comfort me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">Thou shalt prepare a table before me in the presence of them that trouble me; * thou hast anointed my head with oil, and my cup shall be full.</p>

  <p class="psalm">Surely thy loving-kindness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life; * and I will dwell in the house of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> for ever.</p>

  <p class="centered"><i>Levavi oculos.</i> Psalm&nbsp;cxxi.</p>

  <p class="psalm">I WILL lift up mine eyes unto the hills; * from whence cometh my help?</p>

  <p class="psalm">My help cometh even from the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, * who hath made heaven and earth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">He will not suffer thy foot to be moved; * and he that keepeth thee will not sleep.</p>

  <p class="psalm">Behold, he that keepeth Israel * shall neither slumber nor sleep. The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> himself is thy keeper; * the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> is thy defence upon thy right hand;</p>

  <p class="psalm">So that the sun shall not burn thee by day, * neither the moon by night.</p>

  <p class="psalm">The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> shall preserve thee from all evil; * yea, it is even he that shall keep thy soul.</p>

  <p class="psalm">The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> shall preserve thy going out, and thy coming in, * from this time forth for evermore.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Then shall follow the Lesson taken out of the eighteenth Chapter of the Gospel according to St. Matthew.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>AT the same time came the disciples unto Jesus, saying, Who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven? And Jesus called a little child unto him, and set him in the midst of them, and said, Verily I say unto you, Except ye be converted, and become as little children, ye shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven. Whosoever therefore shall humble himself as this little child, the same is greatest in the kingdom of heaven. And whoso shall receive one such little child in my name receiveth me. Take heed that ye despise not one of these little ones; for I say unto you, That in heaven their angels do always behold the face of my Father which is in heaven.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Here may be sung a Hymn or an Anthem; then shall the Minister say,</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p class="psalm">The Lord be with you.</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> And with thy spirit.</p>

  <p class="psalm">Let us pray.</p>

  <p class="versicle">Lord, have mercy upon us.</p>

  <p class="italic psalm">Christ, have mercy upon us.</p>

  <p class="psalm">Lord, have mercy upon us.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Then shall be said by the Minister and People</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>OUR Father, who art in heaven, Hallowed be thy Name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done, On earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread. And forgive us our trespasses, As we forgive those who trespass against us. And lead us not into temptation, But deliver us from evil. Amen.</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Minister.</i> Blessed are the pure in heart;</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> For they shall see God.</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Minister.</i> Blessed be the Name of the Lord;</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> Henceforth, world without end.</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Minister.</i> Lord, hear our prayer;</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> And let our cry come unto thee.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Here shall be said the following Prayers, or other fitting Prayers from this Book.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>O MERCIFUL Father, whose face the angels of thy little ones do always behold in heaven; Grant us stedfastly to believe that this thy child hath been taken into the safe keeping of thine eternal love; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.</p>

  <p>ALMIGHTY and merciful Father, who dost grant to children an abundant entrance into thy kingdom; Grant us grace so to conform our lives to their innocency and perfect faith, that at length, united with them, we may stand in thy presence in fulness of joy; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.</p>

  <p>THE grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, and the love of God, and the fellowship of the Holy Ghost, be with us all evermore. Amen.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>When they are come to the Grave shall be said or sung,</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>JESUS saith to his disciples, Ye now therefore have sorrow: but I will see you again, and your heart shall rejoice, and your joy no man taketh from you.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>While the earth is being cast upon the Body, the Minister shall say,</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>IN sure and certain hope of the Resurrection to eternal life through our Lord Jesus Christ, we commit the body of this child to the ground. The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> bless <i>him</i> and keep <i>him</i>, the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> make his face to shine upon <i>him</i> and be gracious unto <i>him</i>, the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> lift up his countenance upon <i>him</i>, and give <i>him</i> peace, both now and evermore.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Then shall be said or sung,</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>THEREFORE are they before the throne of God, and serve him day and night in his temple: and he that sitteth on the throne shall dwell among them.</p>

  <p>They shall hunger no more, neither thirst any more; neither shall the sun light on them, nor any heat.</p>

  <p>For the Lamb which is in the midst of the throne shall feed them, and shall lead them unto living fountains of waters: and God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Then shall the Minister say,</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p class="psalm">The Lord be with you.</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> And with thy spirit.</p>

  <p class="psalm">Let us pray.</p>

  <p>O GOD, whose most dear Son did take little children into his arms and bless them; Give us grace, we beseech thee, to entrust the soul of this child to thy neverfailing care and love, and bring us all to thy heavenly kingdom; through the same thy Son, Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.</p>

  <p>ALMIGHTY God, Father of mercies and giver of all comfort; Deal graciously, we pray thee, with all those who mourn, that, casting every care on thee, they may know the consolation of thy love; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.</p>

  <p>MAY Almighty God, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost, bless you and keep you, now and for evermore. Amen.</p>
</body>
</html>
