<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Book of Common Prayer - 1928</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/bcp.css" />
</head>

<body>
  <h1 title="The Communion of the Sick" id="heading_id_2">The Communion of the&nbsp;Sick</h1>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Forasmuch as all mortal men are subject to many sudden perils, diseases and sicknesses, and ever uncertain what time they shall depart out of this life; therefore, to the intent they may be always in readiness to die, whensoever it shall please Almighty God to call them, the Ministers shall diligently from time to time, but especially in the time of pestilence, or other infectious sickness, exhort their parishioners to the often receiving of the Holy Communion of the Body and Blood of our Saviour Christ, when it shall be publicly administered in the Church; that so doing, they may, in case of sudden visitation, have the less cause to be disquieted for lack of the same. But if the sick person be not able to come to the Church, and yet is desirous to receive the Communion in his house; then he must give timely notice to the Minister, signifying also how many there are to communicate with him; and all things necessary being prepared, the Minister shall there celebrate the Holy Communion, beginning with the Collect, Epistle, and Gospel, here following.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p class="centered italic">The Collect.</p>

  <p>ALMIGHTY, everliving God, Maker of mankind, who dost correct those whom thou dost love, and chastise every one whom thou dost receive; We beseech thee to have mercy upon this thy servant visited with thine hand, and to grant that he may take his sickness patiently, and recover his bodily health, if it be thy gracious will; and that, whensoever his soul shall depart from the body, it may be without spot presented unto thee; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.</p>

  <p class="centered"><i>The Epistle.</i> Hebrews&nbsp;xii.&nbsp;5.</p>

  <p>MY son, despise not thou the chastening of the Lord, nor faint when thou art rebuked of him: for whom the Lord loveth he chasteneth, and scourgeth every son whom he receiveth.</p>

  <p class="centered"><i>The Gospel.</i> St.&nbsp;John&nbsp;v.&nbsp;24.</p>

  <p>VERILY, verily, I say unto you, He that heareth my word, and believeth on him that sent me, hath everlasting life, and shall not come into condemnation; but is passed from death unto life.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Or the following Collect, Epistle, and Gospel.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p class="centered italic">The Collect.</p>

  <p>O LORD, holy Father, by whose loving-kindness our souls and bodies are renewed; Mercifully look upon this thy servant, that, every cause of sickness being removed, he may be restored to soundness of health; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.</p>

  <p class="centered"><i>The Epistle.</i> 1 St. John v. 13.</p>

  <p>THESE things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God; that ye may know that ye have eternal life, and that ye may believe on the name of the Son of God. And this is the confidence that we have in him, that, if we ask any thing according to his will, he heareth us: and if we know that he hear us, whatsoever we ask, we know that we have the petitions that we desired of him.</p>

  <p class="centered"><i>The Gospel.</i> St. John vi. 47.</p>

  <p>JESUS said, Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that believeth on me hath everlasting life. I am that bread of life. Your fathers did eat manna in the wilderness, and are dead. This is the bread which cometh down from heaven, that a man may eat thereof, and not die. I am the living bread which came down from heaven: if any man eat of this bread, he shall live for ever: and the bread that I will give is my flesh, which I will give for the life of the world.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>After which the Minister shall proceed according to the form before prescribed for the Holy Communion, beginning at these words,</i> Ye who do truly, <i>etc.</i></li>

    <li><i>At the time of the distribution of the holy Sacrament, the Minister shall first receive the Communion himself, and after minister unto those who are appointed to communicate with the sick, and last of all to the sick person.</i></li>

    <li><i>When circumstances render it expedient to shorten the Service, the following form shall suffice:</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p class="small"><i>The Confession and the Absolution;</i> Lift up your hearts, <i>etc., through the Sanctus; The Prayer of Consecration, ending with these words,</i> partakers of his most blessed Body and Blood; <i>The Prayer of Humble Access; The Communion; The Lord’s Prayer; The Blessing. And</i> <span class="smallcaps">Note</span>, <i>That for the Confession and Absolution the following may be used.</i></p>

  <p class="centered italic">The Confession.</p>

  <p>O ALMIGHTY Father, Lord of heaven and earth, we confess that we have sinned against thee in thought, word, and deed. Have mercy upon us, O God, after thy great goodness; according to the multitude of thy mercies, do away our offences and cleanse us from our sins; for Jesus Christ’s sake. Amen.</p>

  <p class="centered italic">The Absolution.</p>

  <p>THE Almighty and merciful Lord grant you Absolution and Remission of all your sins, true repentance, amendment of life, and the grace and consolation of his Holy Spirit. Amen.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>But if a man, either by reason of extremity of sickness, or for want of warning in due time to the Minister, or by any other just impediment, do not receive the Sacrament of Christ’s Body and Blood, the Minister shall instruct him, that if he do truly repent him of his sins, and stedfastly believe that Jesus Christ hath suffered death upon the Cross for him, and shed his Blood for his redemption, earnestly remembering the benefits he hath thereby, and giving him hearty thanks therefor, he doth eat and drink the Body and Blood of our Saviour Christ profitably to his soul’s health, although he do not receive the Sacrament with his mouth.</i></li>

    <li><i>This Office may be used with aged and bedridden persons, or such as are not able to attend the public Ministration in Church, substituting the Collect, Epistle, and Gospel for the Day, for those appointed above.</i></li>
  </ul>
</body>
</html>
