<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Book of Common Prayer - 1928</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/bcp.css" />
</head>

<body>
  <h1 title="Concerning the Service of the Church" id="heading_id_2">Concerning the Service of the&nbsp;Church</h1>

  <p>THE Order for Holy Communion, the Order for Morning Prayer, the Order for Evening Prayer, and the Litany, as set forth in this Book, are the regular Services appointed for Public Worship in this Church, and shall be used accordingly; <i>Provided</i>, that in addition to these Services, the Minister, in his discretion, subject to the direction of the Ordinary, may use other devotions taken from this Book or set forth by lawful authority within this Church, or from Holy Scripture; and <i>Provided further</i>, that, subject to the direction of the Ordinary, in Mission Churches or Chapels, and also, when expressly authorized by the Ordinary, in Cathedral or Parish Churches or other places, such other devotions as aforesaid may be used, when the edification of the Congregation so requires, in place of the Order for Morning Prayer, or the Order for Evening Prayer.</p>

  <p>For Days of Fasting and Thanksgiving appointed by the Civil or Ecclesiastical Authority, and for other special occasions, for which no Service or Prayer hath been provided in this Book, the Bishop may set forth such form or forms as he shall see fit, in which case none other shall be used.</p>

  <p><span class="smallcaps">Note</span>, That in the directions for the several Services in this Book, it is not intended, by the use of any particular word denoting vocal utterance, to prescribe the tone or manner of their recitation.</p>

  <h3 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_3">THE USE OF THE&nbsp;PSALTER AND THE&nbsp;LECTIONARY.</h3>

  <p>THE Old Testament is appointed for the First Lessons, and the New Testament for the Second Lessons, at Morning and Evening Prayer throughout the year.</p>

  <p>The Psalms and Lessons to be read every day are to be found in the following Table of Psalms and Lessons for the Christian Year; except only those for the Immovable Holy Days, the Proper Psalms and Lessons for all which days are to be found in the Table for the Fixed Holy Days.</p>

  <p>On the following days, and their eves, if any, the Proper Psalms appointed in the Tables shall be used: Christmas, Epiphany, Purification, Ash Wednesday, Annunciation, Good Friday, Easter Day, Ascension Day, Whitsunday, Trinity Sunday, Transfiguration, All Saints, and Thanksgiving Day.</p>

  <p>But <span class="smallcaps">Note</span>, That on other days, the Minister shall use the Psalms appointed in the Tables or at his discretion he may use one or more of those assigned in the Psalter to the day of the month, or from the Table of Selections of Psalms. And <span class="smallcaps">Note</span> further, That in the case of a Psalm which is divided into sections, the Minister may use a section or sections of such Psalm.</p>

  <p>The Psalms and Lessons printed on the same line are intended to be used together.[<a href="../Text/Endnotes.xhtml#note_2" id="ref_2">2</a>] At any service for which more than one such set of Psalms and Lessons are appointed, the choice thereof is at the discretion of the Minister.</p>

  <p>Any set of Psalms and Lessons appointed for the evening of any day may be read at the morning service, and any set of morning Psalms and Lessons may be read in the evening.</p>

  <p>The starred Lessons provided for Sundays are particularly appropriate for use when Morning Prayer with one Lesson precedes the Holy Communion.</p>

  <p>Upon any Sunday or Holy Day, the Minister may read the Epistle or the Gospel of the Day in place of the Second Lesson at Morning or Evening Prayer.</p>

  <p>Upon any weekday, other than a Holy Day, the Psalms and Lessons appointed for any day in the same week may be read instead of those appointed for the Day.</p>

  <p>When an Octave is observed for any Holy Day, the Psalms and Lessons for the Day may be used upon the Sunday within the Octave.</p>

  <p>Upon special occasions the Minister may select such Psalms and Lessons as he may think suitable.</p>

  <p>Any Lesson may be lengthened or shortened at the Minister’s discretion.</p>
  <hr class="five" />

  <h3 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_4">HYMNS AND ANTHEMS.</h3>

  <p>HYMNS set forth and allowed by the authority of this Church, and Anthems in the words of Holy Scripture or of the Book of Common Prayer, may be sung before and after any Office in this Book, and also before and after Sermons.</p>
</body>
</html>
