<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Book of Common Prayer - 1928</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/bcp.css" />
</head>

<body>
  <h3 title="Eastertide" class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_11">EASTERTIDE.</h3>

  <h3 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_12">Easter Day.</h3>

  <ul>
    <li><i>At Morning Prayer, instead of the Venite, the following shall be said, and may be said throughout the Octave.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>CHRIST our Passover is sacrificed for us: * therefore let us keep the feast,</p>

  <p>Not with old leaven, neither with the leaven of malice and wickedness; * but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth. <i>1 Cor. v. 7.</i></p>

  <p>&nbsp;</p>

  <p>CHRIST being raised from the dead dieth no more; * death hath no more dominion over him.</p>

  <p>For in that he died, he died unto sin once: * but in that he liveth, he liveth unto God.</p>

  <p>Likewise reckon ye also yourselves to be dead indeed unto sin, * but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord. <i>Rom. vi. 9.</i></p>

  <p>&nbsp;</p>

  <p>CHRIST is risen from the dead, * and become the firstfruits of them that slept.</p>

  <p>For since by man came death, * by man came also the resurrection of the dead.</p>

  <p>For as in Adam all die, * even so in Christ shall all be made alive. <i>1 Cor. xv. 20</i></p>

  <p>&nbsp;</p>

  <p>Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost;</p>

  <p>As it was in the beginning, is now, and ever shall be, * world without end. Amen.</p>

  <p class="centered italic">The Collect.</p>

  <p>ALMIGHTY God, who through thine only-begotten Son Jesus Christ hast overcome death, and opened unto us the gate of everlasting life; We humbly beseech thee that, as by thy special grace preventing us thou dost put into our minds good desires, so by thy continual help we may bring the same to good effect; through the same Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth and reigneth with thee and the Holy Ghost ever, one God, world without end. Amen.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>This Collect is to be said daily throughout Easter Week.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p class="centered"><i>The Epistle.</i> Colossians iii. 1.</p>

  <p>IF ye then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God. Set your affection on things above, not on things on the earth. For ye are dead, and your life is hid with Christ in God. When Christ, who is our life, shall appear, then shall ye also appear with him in glory.</p>

  <p class="centered"><i>The Gospel.</i> St. John xx. 1.</p>

  <p>THE first day of the week cometh Mary Magdalene early, when it was yet dark, unto the sepulchre, and seeth the stone taken away from the sepulchre. Then she runneth, and cometh to Simon Peter, and to the other disciple, whom Jesus loved, and saith unto them, They have taken away the Lord out of the sepulchre, and we know not where they have laid him. Peter therefore went forth, and that other disciple, and came to the sepulchre. So they ran both together: and the other disciple did outrun Peter, and came first to the sepulchre. And he stooping down, and looking in, saw the linen clothes lying; yet went he not in. Then cometh Simon Peter following him, and went into the sepulchre, and seeth the linen clothes lie, and the napkin, that was about his head, not lying with the linen clothes, but wrapped together in a place by itself. Then went in also that other disciple, which came first to the sepulchre, and he saw, and believed. For as yet they knew not the scripture, that he must rise again from the dead. Then the disciples went away again unto their own home.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>If in any Church the Holy Communion be twice celebrated on Easter Day, the following Collect, Epistle, and Gospel may be used at the first Communion.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p class="centered italic">The Collect.</p>

  <p>O GOD, who for our redemption didst give thine only-begotten Son to the death of the Cross, and by his glorious resurrection hast delivered us from the power of our enemy; Grant us so to die daily from sin, that we may evermore live with him in the joy of his resurrection; through the same thy Son Christ our Lord. Amen.</p>

  <p class="centered"><i>The Epistle.</i> 1 Corinthians v. 6.</p>

  <p>KNOW ye not that a little leaven leaveneth the whole lump? Purge out therefore the old leaven, that ye may be a new lump, as ye are unleavened. For even Christ our passover is sacrificed for us: therefore let us keep the feast, not with old leaven, neither with the leaven of malice and wickedness; but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth.</p>

  <p class="centered"><i>The Gospel.</i> St. Mark xvi. 1.</p>

  <p>WHEN the sabbath was past, Mary Magdalene, and Mary the Mother of James, and Salome, had bought sweet spices, that they might come and anoint him. And very early in the morning the first day of the week, they came unto the sepulchre at the rising of the sun. And they said among themselves, Who shall roll us away the stone from the door of the sepulchre? And when they looked, they saw that the stone was rolled away: for it was very great. And entering into the sepulchre, they saw a young man sitting on the right side, clothed in a long white garment; and they were affrighted. And he saith unto them, Be not affrighted: Ye seek Jesus of Nazareth, which was crucified: he is risen; he is not here: behold the place where they laid him. But go your way, tell his disciples and Peter that he goeth before you into Galilee: there shall ye see him, as he said unto you. And they went out quickly, and fled from the sepulchre; for they trembled and were amazed: neither said they any thing to any man; for they were afraid.</p>
</body>
</html>
