<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Book of Common Prayer - 1928</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/bcp.css" />
</head>

<body>
  <h1 id="heading_id_2">Endnotes</h1>

  <p class="endnote">[<a href="../Text/Certificate.xhtml#ref_1" id="note_1">1</a>] Editor’s Note: The certification applies to the text from which this e-book was derived.</p>

  <p class="endnote">[<a href="../Text/ConcerningServiceOfChurch.xhtml#ref_2" id="note_2">2</a>] Editor’s Note: Psalms and Lessons “printed on the same line” in the original have been reformatted for the mobile device and are shown instead in groups in the Lectionary.</p>

  <p class="endnote">{<a href="../Text/EpiphanySeason.xhtml#ref_3" id="note_3">3</a>} Note, That the Psalms and Lessons for the dated days after the Epiphany are to be used only until the following Sunday.</p>

  <p class="endnote">{<a href="../Text/MorningPrayer.xhtml#ref_4" id="note_4">4</a>} This may be said when any desire the prayers of the Congregation.</p>

  <p class="endnote">{<a href="../Text/MorningPrayer.xhtml#ref_5" id="note_5">5</a>} This may be said when any desire to return thanks for mercies vouchsafed to them.</p>

  <p class="endnote">{<a href="../Text/EveningPrayer.xhtml#ref_6" id="note_6">6</a>} This may be said when any desire the prayers of the Congregation.</p>

  <p class="endnote">{<a href="../Text/EveningPrayer.xhtml#ref_7" id="note_7">7</a>} This may be said when any desire to return thanks for mercies vouchsafed to them.</p>

  <p class="endnote">{<a href="../Text/HolyCommunion.xhtml#ref_HCa" id="note_HCa">a</a>} Here the Priest is to take the Paten into his hands.</p>

  <p class="endnote">{<a href="../Text/HolyCommunion.xhtml#ref_HCb" id="note_HCb">b</a>} And here to break the Bread.</p>

  <p class="endnote">{<a href="../Text/HolyCommunion.xhtml#ref_HCc" id="note_HCc">c</a>} And here to lay his hand upon all the Bread.</p>

  <p class="endnote">{<a href="../Text/HolyCommunion.xhtml#ref_HCd" id="note_HCd">d</a>} Here he is to take the Cup into his hands.</p>

  <p class="endnote">{<a href="../Text/HolyCommunion.xhtml#ref_HCe" id="note_HCe">e</a>} And here he is to lay his hand upon every vessel in which there is any Wine to be consecrated.</p>

  <p class="endnote">{<a href="../Text/Baptism.xhtml#ref_8" id="note_8">8</a>} Here the Minister shall make a Cross upon the Child’s (or Person’s) forehead.</p>

  <p class="endnote">{<a href="../Text/FamilyEvening.xhtml#ref_9" id="note_9">9</a>} Here let him who reads make a short pause, that every one may secretly confess the sins and failings of that day.</p>

  <p class="endnote">[<a href="../Text/ArticlesOfReligion.xhtml#ref_10" id="note_10">10</a>] phronema sarkos.</p>
</body>
</html>
