<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Book of Common Prayer - 1928</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/bcp.css" />
</head>

<body>
  <!-- ============================= -->

  <h1 id="heading_id_2">The Order for<br />
  Daily Evening Prayer</h1>

  <ul>
    <li><i>The Minister shall begin the Evening Prayer by reading one or more of the following Sentences of Scripture; and then he shall say that which is written after them. But he may, at his discretion, pass at once from the Sentences to the Lord’s Prayer.</i></li>

    <li><i>And</i> <span class="smallcaps">Note</span>, <i>that when the Confession and Absolution are omitted, the Minister may, after the Sentences, pass to the Versicles,</i> O Lord open thou our lips, <i>etc., in which case the Lord’s Prayer shall be said with the other prayers, immediately after</i> The Lord be with you, <i>etc., and before the Versicles and Responses which follow.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>THE <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> is in his holy temple: let all the earth keep silence before him. <i>Hab. ii. 20.</i></p>

  <p>LORD, I have loved the habitation of thy house, and the place where thine honour dwelleth. <i>Psalm xxvi. 8.</i></p>

  <p>Let my prayer be set forth in thy sight as the incense; and let the lifting up of my hands be an evening sacrifice. <i>Psalm cxli. 2.</i></p>

  <p>O worship the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> in the beauty of holiness; let the whole earth stand in awe of him. <i>Psalm xcvi. 9.</i></p>

  <p>Let the words of my mouth, and the meditation of my heart, be alway acceptable in thy sight, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, my strength and my redeemer. <i>Psalm xix. 14.</i></p>

  <p class="italic">Advent.</p>

  <p>Watch ye, for ye know not when the master of the house cometh, at even, or at midnight, or at the cock-crowing, or in the morning: lest coming suddenly he find you sleeping. <i>St. Mark xiii. 35, 36.</i></p>

  <p class="italic">Christmas.</p>

  <p>Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people, and God himself shall be with them, and be their God. <i>Rev. xxi. 3.</i></p>

  <p class="italic">Epiphany.</p>

  <p>The Gentiles shall come to thy light, and kings to the brightness of thy rising. <i>Isaiah lx. 3.</i></p>

  <p class="italic">Lent.</p>

  <p>I acknowledge my transgressions, and my sin is ever before me. <i>Psalm li. 3.</i></p>

  <p>To the Lord our God belong mercies and forgivenesses, though we have rebelled against him; neither have we obeyed the voice of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> our God, to walk in his laws which he set before us. <i>Dan. ix. 9, 10.</i></p>

  <p>If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us; but if we confess our sins, God is faithful and just to forgive us our sins, and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. <i>1 St. John i. 8, 9.</i></p>

  <p class="italic">Good Friday.</p>

  <p>All we like sheep have gone astray; we have turned every one to his own way; and the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. <i>Isaiah liii. 6.</i></p>

  <p class="italic">Easter.</p>

  <p>Thanks be to God, which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. <i>1 Cor. xv. 57.</i></p>

  <p>If ye then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God. <i>Col. iii. 1.</i></p>

  <p class="italic">Ascension.</p>

  <p>Christ is not entered into the holy places made with hands, which are the figures of the true; but into heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God for us. <i>Heb. ix. 24.</i></p>

  <p class="italic">Whitsunday.</p>

  <p>There is a river, the streams whereof shall make glad the city of God, the holy place of the tabernacles of the Most High. <i>Psalm xlvi. 4.</i></p>

  <p>The Spirit and the bride say, Come. And let him that heareth say, Come. And let him that is athirst come. And whosoever will, let him take the water of life freely. <i>Rev. xxii. 17.</i></p>

  <p class="italic">Trinity Sunday.</p>

  <p>Holy, holy, holy, is the L<span class="smallcaps">ord</span> of hosts: the whole earth is full of his glory. <i>Isaiah vi. 3.</i></p>

  <p>LET us humbly confess our sins unto Almighty God.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Or else he shall say as followeth.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>DEARLY beloved brethren, the Scripture moveth us, in sundry places, to acknowledge and confess our manifold sins and wickedness; and that we should not dissemble nor cloak them before the face of Almighty God our heavenly Father; but confess them with an humble, lowly, penitent, and obedient heart; to the end that we may obtain forgiveness of the same, by his infinite goodness and mercy. And although we ought, at all times, humbly to acknowledge our sins before God; yet ought we chiefly so to do, when we assemble and meet together to render thanks for the great benefits that we have received at his hands, to set forth his most worthy praise, to hear his most holy Word, and to ask those things which are requisite and necessary, as well for the body as the soul. Wherefore I pray and beseech you, as many as are here present, to accompany me with a pure heart, and humble voice, unto the throne of the heavenly grace, saying—</p>

  <p class="centered italic">A General Confession.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>To be said by the whole Congregation, after the Minister, all kneeling.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>ALMIGHTY and most merciful Father; We have erred, and strayed from thy ways like lost sheep. We have followed too much the devices and desires of our own hearts. We have offended against thy holy laws. We have left undone those things which we ought to have done; And we have done those things which we ought not to have done; And there is no health in us. But thou, O Lord, have mercy upon us, miserable offenders. Spare thou those, O God, who confess their faults. Restore thou those who are penitent; According to thy promises declared unto mankind In Christ Jesus our Lord. And grant, O most merciful Father, for his sake; That we may hereafter live a godly, righteous, and sober life, To the glory of thy holy Name. Amen.</p>

  <p class="centered italic">The Declaration of Absolution, or Remission of&nbsp;Sins.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>To be made by the Priest alone, standing; the People still kneeling.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>ALMIGHTY God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who desireth not the death of a sinner, but rather that he may turn from his wickedness and live, hath given power, and commandment, to his Ministers, to declare and pronounce to his people, being penitent, the Absolution and Remission of their sins. He pardoneth and absolveth all those who truly repent, and unfeignedly believe his holy Gospel.</p>

  <p>Wherefore let us beseech him to grant us true repentance, and his Holy Spirit, that those things may please him which we do at this present; and that the rest of our life hereafter may be pure and holy; so that at the last we may come to his eternal joy; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Or this.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>THE Almighty and merciful Lord grant you Absolution and Remission of all your sins, true repentance, amendment of life, and the grace and consolation of his Holy Spirit. Amen.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Then the Minister shall kneel, and say the Lord’s Prayer; the People still kneeling, and repeating it with him.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>OUR Father, who art in heaven, Hallowed be thy Name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done, On earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread. And forgive us our trespasses, As we forgive those who trespass against us. And lead us not into temptation, But deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, for ever and ever. Amen.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Then likewise he shall say,</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p class="psalm">O Lord, open thou our lips.</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> And our mouth shall show forth thy praise.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Here, all standing up, the Minister shall say,</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p class="psalm">Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost;</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> As it was in the beginning, is now, and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Minister.</i> Praise ye the Lord.</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> The Lord’s Name be praised.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Then shall follow a Portion of the Psalms, according to the Use of this Church. And at the end of every Psalm, and likewise at the end of the Magnificat, Cantate Domino, Bonum est confiteri, Nunc dimittus, Deus misereatur, Benedic, anima mea, shall be sung or said the Gloria Patri; and at the end of the whole Portion or Selection of Psalms for the day, shall be sung or said the Gloria Patri, or else the Gloria in excelsis, as followeth.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p class="centered italic">Gloria in excelsis.</p>

  <p>GLORY be to God on high, and on earth peace, good will towards men. We praise thee, we bless thee, we worship thee, we glorify thee, we give thanks to thee for thy great glory, O Lord God, heavenly King, God the Father Almighty.</p>

  <p>O Lord, the only-begotten Son, Jesus Christ; O Lord God, Lamb of God, Son of the Father, that takest away the sins of the world, have mercy upon us. Thou that takest away the sins of the world, receive our prayer. Thou that sittest at the right hand of God the Father, have mercy upon us.</p>

  <p>For thou only art holy; thou only art the Lord; thou only, O Christ, with the Holy Ghost, art most high in the glory of God the Father. Amen.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Then shall be read the First Lesson according to the Table or Calendar.</i></li>

    <li><i>After which shall be sung or said the Hymn called magnificat, as followeth.</i></li>

    <li><i>But,</i> <span class="smallcaps">Note</span>, <i>That the Minister, at his discretion, may omit one of the Lessons in Evening Prayer, the Lesson read being followed by one of the Evening Canticles.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p class="centered"><i>Magnificat.</i> St.&nbsp;Luke&nbsp;i.&nbsp;46.</p>

  <p class="psalm">MY soul doth magnify the Lord, * and my spirit hath rejoiced in God my Saviour.</p>

  <p class="psalm">For he hath regarded * the lowliness of his handmaiden.</p>

  <p class="psalm">For behold, from henceforth * all generations shall call me blessed.</p>

  <p class="psalm">For he that is mighty hath magnified me; * and holy is his Name.</p>

  <p class="psalm">And his mercy is on them that fear him * throughout all generations.</p>

  <p class="psalm">He hath showed strength with his arm; * he hath scattered the proud in the imagination of their hearts.</p>

  <p class="psalm">He hath put down the mighty from their seat, * and hath exalted the humble and meek.</p>

  <p class="psalm">He hath filled the hungry with good things; * and the rich he hath sent empty away.</p>

  <p class="psalm">He remembering his mercy hath holpen his servant Israel; * as he promised to our forefathers, Abraham and his seed, for ever.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Or this Psalm.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p class="centered"><i>Cantate Domino.</i> Psalm&nbsp;xcviii.</p>

  <p class="psalm">O SING unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> a new song; * for he hath done marvellous things.</p>

  <p class="psalm">With his own right hand, and with his holy arm, * hath he gotten himself the victory.</p>

  <p class="psalm">The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> declared his salvation; * his righteousness hath he openly showed in the sight of the heathen.</p>

  <p class="psalm">He hath remembered his mercy and truth toward the house of Israel; * and all the ends of the world have seen the salvation of our God.</p>

  <p class="psalm">Show yourselves joyful unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, all ye lands; * sing, rejoice, and give thanks.</p>

  <p class="psalm">Praise the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> upon the harp; * sing to the harp with a psalm of thanksgiving.</p>

  <p class="psalm">With trumpets also and shawms, * O show yourselves joyful before the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, the King.</p>

  <p class="psalm">Let the sea make a noise, and all that therein is; * the round world, and they that dwell therein.</p>

  <p class="psalm">Let the floods clap their hands, and let the hills be joyful together before the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * for he cometh to judge the earth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">With righteousness shall he judge the world, * and the peoples with equity.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Or this.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p class="centered"><i>Bonum est confiteri.</i> Psalm&nbsp;xcii.</p>

  <p class="psalm">IT is a good thing to give thanks unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, * and to sing praises unto thy Name, O Most Highest;</p>

  <p class="psalm">To tell of thy loving-kindness early in the morning, * and of thy truth in the night season;</p>

  <p class="psalm">Upon an instrument of ten strings, and upon the lute; * upon a loud instrument, and upon the harp.</p>

  <p class="psalm">For thou, <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, hast made me glad through thy works; * and I will rejoice in giving praise for the operations of thy hands.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Then a lesson of the New Testament, as it is appointed.</i></li>

    <li><i>And after that shall be sung or said the Hymn called the Nunc dimittis, as followeth.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p class="centered"><i>Nunc dimittis.</i> St.&nbsp;Luke&nbsp;ii. 29.</p>

  <p class="psalm">LORD, now lettest thou thy servant depart in peace, * according to thy word.</p>

  <p class="psalm">For mine eyes have seen * thy salvation,</p>

  <p class="psalm">Which thou hast prepared * before the face of all people;</p>

  <p class="psalm">To be a light to lighten the Gentiles, * and to be the glory of thy people Israel.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Or else this Psalm.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p class="centered"><i>Deus misereatur.</i> Psalm&nbsp;lxvii.</p>

  <p class="psalm">GOD be merciful unto us, and bless us, * and show us the light of his countenance, and be merciful unto us;</p>

  <p class="psalm">That thy way may be known upon earth, * thy saving health among all nations.</p>

  <p class="psalm">Let the peoples praise thee, O God; * yea, let all the peoples praise thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">O let the nations rejoice and be glad; * for thou shalt judge the folk righteously, and govern the nations upon earth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">Let the peoples praise thee, O God; * yea, let all the peoples praise thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">Then shall the earth bring forth her increase; * and God, even our own God, shall give us his blessing.</p>

  <p class="psalm">God shall bless us; * and all the ends of the world shall fear him.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Or this.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p class="centered"><i>Benedic, anima mea.</i> Psalm&nbsp;ciii.</p>

  <p class="psalm">PRAISE the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, O my soul; * and all that is within me, praise his holy Name.</p>

  <p class="psalm">Praise the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, O my soul, * and forget not all his benefits:</p>

  <p class="psalm">Who forgiveth all thy sin, * and healeth all thine infirmities;</p>

  <p class="psalm">Who saveth thy life from destruction, * and crowneth thee with mercy and loving-kindness.</p>

  <p class="psalm">O praise the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, ye angels of his, ye that excel in strength; * ye that fulfil his commandment, and hearken unto the voice of his word.</p>

  <p class="psalm">O praise the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, all ye his hosts; * ye servants of his that do his pleasure.</p>

  <p class="psalm">O speak good of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, all ye works of his, in all places of his dominion: * praise thou the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, O my soul.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Then shall be said the Apostle’s Creed by the Minister and the People, standing. And any Churches may, instead of the words,</i> He descended into Hell, <i>use the words,</i> He went into the place of departed spirits, <i>which are considered as words of the same meaning in the Creed.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>I BELIEVE in God the Father Almighty, Maker of heaven and earth:</p>

  <p>And in Jesus Christ his only Son our Lord: Who was conceived by the Holy Ghost, Born of the Virgin Mary: Suffered under Pontius Pilate, Was crucified, dead, and buried: He descended into hell; The third day he rose again from the dead: He ascended into heaven, And sitteth on the right hand of God the Father Almighty: From thence he shall come to judge the quick and the dead.</p>

  <p>I believe in the Holy Ghost: The holy Catholic Church; The Communion of Saints: The Forgiveness of sins: The Resurrection of the body: And the Life everlasting. Amen.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Or the Creed commonly called the Nicene.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>I BELIEVE in one God the Father Almighty, Maker of heaven and earth, And of all things visible and invisible:</p>

  <p>And in one Lord Jesus Christ, the only-begotten Son of God; Begotten of his Father before all worlds, God of God, Light of Light, Very God of Very God: Begotten, not made; Being of one substance with the Father; By whom all things were made: Who for us men and for our salvation came down from heaven, And was incarnate by the Holy Ghost of the Virgin Mary, And was made man: And was crucified also for us under Pontius Pilate; He suffered and was buried: And the third day he rose again according to the Scriptures: And ascended into heaven, And sitteth on the right hand of God the Father: And he shall come again, with glory, to judge both the quick and the dead; Whose kingdom shall have no end.</p>

  <p>And I believe in the Holy Ghost, The Lord, and Giver of Life, Who proceedeth from the Father and the Son; Who with the Father and the Son together is worshipped and glorified; Who spoke by the Prophets: And I believe one Catholic and Apostolic Church: I acknowledge one Baptism for the remission of sins: And I look for the Resurrection of the dead: And the Life of the world to come. Amen.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>And after that, these Prayers following, the People devoutly kneeling; the Minister first pronouncing,</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p class="psalm">The Lord be with you.</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer</i>. And with thy spirit.</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Minister</i>. Let us pray.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Here, if it hath not already been said, shall follow the Lord’s Prayer.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Minister</i>. O Lord, show thy mercy upon us.</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer</i>. And grant us thy salvation.</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Minister</i>. O Lord, save the State.</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> And mercifully hear us when we call upon thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Minister</i>. Endue thy Ministers with righteousness.</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> And make thy chosen people joyful.</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Minister.</i> O Lord, save thy people.</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> And bless thine inheritance.</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Minister</i>. Give peace in our time, O Lord.</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> For it is thou, Lord, only, that makest us dwell in safety.</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Minister</i>. O God, make clean our hearts within us.</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer</i>. And take not thy Holy Spirit from us.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Then shall be said the Collect for the Day, and after that the Collects and Prayers following.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p class="centered italic">A Collect for Peace.</p>

  <p>O GOD, from whom all holy desires, all good counsels, and all just works do proceed; Give unto thy servants that peace which the world cannot give; that our hearts may be set to obey thy commandments, and also that by thee, we, being defended from the fear of our enemies, may pass our time in rest and quietness; through the merits of Jesus Christ our Saviour. Amen.</p>

  <p class="centered italic">A Collect for Aid against&nbsp;Perils.</p>

  <p>LIGHTEN our darkness, we beseech thee, O Lord; and by thy great mercy defend us from all perils and dangers of this night; for the love of thy only Son, our Saviour, Jesus Christ. Amen.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>In places where it may be convenient, here followeth the Anthem.</i></li>

    <li><i>The Minister may here end the Evening Prayer, with such Prayer, or Prayers, taken out of this Book, as he shall think fit.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p class="centered italic">A Prayer for The President of the United States, and all in Civil&nbsp;Authority.</p>

  <p>ALMIGHTY God, whose kingdom is everlasting and power infinite; Have mercy upon this whole land; and so rule the hearts of thy servants <span class="smallcaps">The President of the United States</span>, <i>The Governor of this State</i>, and all others in authority, that they, knowing whose ministers they are, may above all things seek thy honour and glory; and that we and all the People, duly considering whose authority they bear, may faithfully and obediently honour them, according to thy blessed Word and ordinance; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who with thee and the Holy Ghost liveth and reigneth ever, one God, world without end. Amen.</p>

  <p class="centered italic">A Prayer for the Clergy and&nbsp;People.</p>

  <p>ALMIGHTY and everlasting God, from whom cometh every good and perfect gift; Send down upon our Bishops, and other Clergy, and upon the Congregations committed to their charge, the healthful Spirit of thy grace; and, that they may truly please thee, pour upon them the continual dew of thy blessing. Grant this, O Lord, for the honour of our Advocate and Mediator, Jesus Christ. Amen.</p>

  <p class="centered italic">A Prayer for all Conditions of&nbsp;Men.</p>

  <p>O GOD, the Creator and Preserver of all mankind, we humbly beseech thee for all sorts and conditions of men; that thou wouldest be pleased to make thy ways known unto them, thy saving health unto all nations. More especially we pray for thy holy Church universal; that it may be so guided and governed by thy good Spirit, that all who profess and call themselves Christians may be led into the way of truth, and hold the faith in unity of spirit, in the bond of peace, and in righteousness of life. Finally, we commend to thy fatherly goodness all those who are any ways afflicted, or distressed, in mind, body, or estate; [{<a href="../Text/Endnotes.xhtml#note_6" id="ref_6">6</a>} <i>especially those for whom our prayers are desired;</i>] that it may please thee to comfort and relieve them, according to their several necessities; giving them patience under their sufferings, and a happy issue out of all their afflictions. And this we beg for Jesus Christ’s sake. Amen.</p>

  <p class="centered italic">A General Thanksgiving.</p>

  <p>ALMIGHTY God, Father of all mercies, we, thine unworthy servants, do give thee most humble and hearty thanks for all thy goodness and loving-kindness to us, and to all men; [{<a href="../Text/Endnotes.xhtml#note_7" id="ref_7">7</a>} <i>particularly to those who desire now to offer up their praises and thanksgivings for thy late mercies vouchsafed unto them.</i>] We bless thee for our creation, preservation, and all the blessings of this life; but above all, for thine inestimable love in the redemption of the world by our Lord Jesus Christ; for the means of grace, and for the hope of glory. And, we beseech thee, give us that due sense of all thy mercies, that our hearts may be unfeignedly thankful; and that we show forth thy praise, not only with our lips, but in our lives, by giving up our selves to thy service, and by walking before thee in holiness and righteousness all our days; through Jesus Christ our Lord, to whom, with thee and the Holy Ghost, be all honour and glory, world without end. Amen.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><span class="smallcaps">Note</span>, <i>That the General Thanksgiving may be said by the Congregation and the Minister.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p class="centered italic">A Prayer of St.&nbsp;Chrysostom.</p>

  <p>ALMIGHTY God, who hast given us grace at this time with one accord to make our common supplications unto thee; and dost promise that when two or three are gathered together in thy Name thou wilt grant their requests; Fulfil now, O Lord, the desires and petitions of thy servants, as may be most expedient for them; granting us in this world knowledge of thy truth, and in the world to come life everlasting. Amen.</p>

  <p class="centered">2 Cor. xiii.&nbsp;14.</p>

  <p>The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, and the love of God, and the fellowship of the Holy Ghost, be with us all evermore. Amen.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Here endeth The Order of Evening Prayer.</i></li>
  </ul>
</body>
</html>
