<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Book of Common Prayer - 1928</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/bcp.css" />
</head>

<body>
  <h1 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_2">The Form and Manner of Making&nbsp;Deacons</h1>

  <ul>
    <li><i>When the day appointed by the Bishop is come, there shall be a Sermon, or Exhortation, declaring the Duty and Office of such as come to be admitted Deacons; how necessary that Order is in the Church of Christ, and also, how the People ought to esteem them in their Office.</i></li>

    <li><i>The Sermon being ended, a Priest shall present unto the Bishop, sitting in his chair near to the Holy Table, such as desire to be ordained Deacons, each of them being decently habited, saying these words,</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>REVEREND Father in God, I present unto you these persons present, to be admitted Deacons.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>The Bishop</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>TAKE heed that the persons, whom ye present unto us, be apt and meet, for their learning and godly conversation, to exercise their Ministry duly, to the honour of God, and the edifying of his Church.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>The Priest shall answer,</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>I HAVE inquired concerning them, and also examined them, and think them so to be.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Then the Bishop shall say unto the People,</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>BRETHREN, if there be any of you who knoweth any Impediment, or notable Crime, in any of these persons presented to be ordered Deacons, for the which he ought not to be admitted to that Office, let him come forth in the Name of God, and show what the Crime or Impediment is.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>And if any great Crime or Impediment be objected, the Bishop shall cease from Ordering that person, until such time as the party accused shall be found clear of that Crime.</i></li>

    <li><i>Then the Bishop (commending such as shall be found meet to be Ordered, to the Prayers of the congregation) shall, with the Clergy and People present, say the Litany.</i></li>

    <li><i>And</i> <span class="smallcaps">Note</span>, <i>That after the Suffrage,</i> That it may please thee to illuminate all Bishops, <i>etc., shall be said the following Suffrage:</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>THAT it may please thee to bless these thy servants, now to be admitted to the Order of Deacons, and to pour thy grace upon them; that they may duly execute their Office, to the edifying of thy Church, and the glory of thy holy Name;</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>And</i> <span class="smallcaps">Note</span> <i>further, That in the discretion of the Bishop, instead of the Litany appointed, may be said the Litany for Ordinations.</i></li>

    <li><i>Then shall be said the Service for the Communion, with the Collect, Epistle, and Gospel, as followeth.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p class="centered italic">The Collect.</p>

  <p>ALMIGHTY God, who by thy divine providence hast appointed divers Orders of Ministers in thy Church, and didst inspire thine Apostles to choose into the Order of Deacons the first Martyr Saint Stephen, with others; Mercifully behold these thy servants now called to the like Office and Administration: so replenish them with the truth of thy Doctrine, and adorn them with innocency of life, that, both by word and good example, they may faithfully serve thee in this Office, to the glory of thy Name, and the edification of thy Church; through the merits of our Saviour Jesus Christ, who liveth and reigneth with thee and the Holy Ghost, now and for ever. Amen.</p>

  <p class="centered"><i>The Epistle.</i> 1 Timothy iii. 8.</p>

  <p>LIKEWISE must the deacons be grave, not double tongued, not given to much wine, not greedy of filthy lucre; holding the mystery of the faith in a pure conscience. And let these also first be proved; then let them use the office of a deacon, being found blameless. Even so must their wives be grave, not slanderers, sober, faithful in all things. Let the deacons be the husbands of one wife, ruling their children and their own houses well. For they that have used the office of a deacon well purchase to themselves a good degree, and great boldness in the faith which is in Christ Jesus.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Or else.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p class="centered"><i>The Epistle.</i> Acts vi. 2.</p>

  <p>THEN the twelve called the multitude of the disciples unto them, and said, It is not reason that we should leave the word of God, and serve tables. Wherefore, brethren, look ye out among you seven men of honest report, full of the Holy Ghost and wisdom, whom we may appoint over this business. But we will give ourselves continually to prayer, and to the ministry of the word. And the saying pleased the whole multitude: and they chose Stephen, a man full of faith and of the Holy Ghost, and Philip, and Prochorus, and Nicanor, and Timon, and Parmenas, and Nicolas a proselyte of Antioch: whom they set before the apostles: and when they had prayed, they laid their hands on them. And the word of God increased; and the number of the disciples multiplied in Jerusalem greatly; and a great company of the priests were obedient to the faith.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Then, the People being seated, the Bishop shall examine every one of those who are to be Ordered, in the presence of the People, after this manner following.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p class="psalm">DO you trust that you are inwardly moved by the Holy Ghost to take upon you this Office and Ministration, to serve God for the promoting of his glory, and the edifying of his people?</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> I trust so.</p>

  <p class="versicle"><i>Bishop.</i> Do you think that you are truly called, according to the will of our Lord Jesus Christ, and according to the Canons of this Church, to the Ministry of the same?</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> I think so.</p>

  <p class="versicle"><i>Bishop.</i> Are you persuaded that the Holy Scriptures contain all Doctrine required as necessary for eternal salvation through faith in Jesus Christ?</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> I am so persuaded.</p>

  <p class="versicle"><i>Bishop.</i> Will you diligently read the same unto the people assembled in the Church where you shall be appointed to serve?</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> I will.</p>

  <p class="versicle"><i>Bishop.</i> It appertaineth to the Office of a Deacon, in the Church where he shall be appointed to serve, to assist the Priest in Divine Service, and specially when he ministereth the Holy Communion, and to help him in the distribution thereof; and to read Holy Scriptures and Homilies in the Church; and to instruct the youth in the Catechism; in the absence of the Priest to baptize infants; and to preach, if he be admitted thereto by the Bishop. And furthermore, it is his Office, where provision is so made, to search for the sick, poor, and impotent people of the Parish, that they may be relieved with the alms of the Parishioners, or others. Will you do this gladly and willingly?</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> I will so do, by the help of God.</p>

  <p class="versicle"><i>Bishop.</i> Will you apply all your diligence to frame and fashion your own lives, and the lives of your families, according to the Doctrine of Christ; and to make both yourselves and them, as much as in you lieth, wholesome examples of the flock of Christ?</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> I will so do, the Lord being my helper.</p>

  <p class="versicle"><i>Bishop.</i> Will you reverently obey your Bishop, and other chief Ministers, who, according to the Canons of the Church, may have the charge and government over you; following with a glad mind and will their godly admonitions?</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> I will endeavour so to do, the Lord being my helper.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Then, the People standing, the Bishop shall lay his Hands severally upon the Head of every one to be made Deacon, humbly kneeling before him, and shall say,</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>TAKE thou Authority to execute the Office of a Deacon in the Church of God committed unto thee; In the Name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Then shall the Bishop deliver to every one of them the New Testament, saying,</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>TAKE thou Authority to read the Gospel in the Church of God, and to preach the same, if thou be thereto licensed by the Bishop himself.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Then one of them, appointed by the Bishop, shall read the Gospel.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p class="centered"><i>The Gospel.</i> St. Luke xii. 35.</p>

  <p>LET your loins be girded about, and your lights burning; and ye yourselves like unto men that wait for their lord, when he will return from the wedding; that when he cometh and knocketh, they may open unto him immediately. Blessed are those servants, whom the lord when he cometh shall find watching: verily I say unto you, that he shall gird himself, and make them to sit down to meat, and will come forth and serve them. And if he shall come in the second watch, or come in the third watch, and find them so, blessed are those servants.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Then shall the Bishop proceed in the Communion; and all who are Ordered shall tarry, and receive the Holy Communion the same day, with the Bishop.</i></li>

    <li><i>The Communion ended, after the last Collect, and immediately before the Benediction, shall be said this Collect following.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>ALMIGHTY God, giver of all good things, who of thy great goodness hast vouchsafed to accept and take these thy servants unto the Office of Deacons in thy Church; Make them, we beseech thee, O Lord, to be modest, humble, and constant in their Ministration, to have a ready will to observe all spiritual Discipline; that they, having always the testimony of a good conscience, and continuing ever stable and strong in thy Son Christ, may so well behave themselves in this inferior Office, that they may be found worthy to be called unto the higher Ministries in thy Church; through the same thy Son our Saviour Jesus Christ, to whom be glory and honour, world without end. Amen.</p>

  <p>THE Peace of God, which passeth all understanding, keep your hearts and minds in the knowledge and love of God, and of his Son Jesus Christ our Lord: And the Blessing of God Almighty, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost, be amongst you, and remain with you always. Amen.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>And here it must be declared unto the Deacon, that he must continue in that Office of a Deacon the space of a whole year, (except for reasonable causes it shall otherwise seem good unto the Bishop,) to the intent he may be perfect and well expert in the things appertaining to the Ecclesiastical Administration. In executing whereof if he be found faithful and diligent, he may be admitted by his Diocesan to the Order of Priesthood, at the times appointed in the Canon; or else, on urgent occasion, upon some other day, in the face of the Church, in such manner and form as hereafter followeth.</i></li>
  </ul>
</body>
</html>
