<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Book of Common Prayer - 1928</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/bcp.css" />
</head>

<body>
  <h1 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_2">The Order for<br />
  Daily Morning Prayer</h1>

  <ul>
    <li><i>The Minister shall begin the Morning Prayer by reading one or more of the following Sentences of Scripture.</i></li>

    <li><i>On any day, save a Day of Fasting or Abstinence, or on any day when the Litany or Holy Communion is immediately to follow, the Minister may, at his discretion, pass at once from the Sentences to the Lord’s Prayer, first pronouncing,</i> The Lord be with you. <i>Answer.</i> And with thy spirit. <i>Minister.</i> Let us pray.</li>

    <li><i>And</i> <span class="smallcaps">Note</span>, <i>that when the Confession and Absolution are omitted, the Minister may, after the Sentences, pass to the Versicles,</i> O Lord open thou our lips, <i>etc., in which case the Lord’s Prayer shall be said with the other prayers, immediately after</i> The Lord be with you, <i>etc., and before the Versicles and Responses which follow, or, in the Litany, as there appointed.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>THE <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> is in his holy temple: let all the earth keep silence before him. <i>Hab. ii. 20.</i></p>

  <p>I was glad when they said unto me, We will go into the house of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>. <i>Psalm cxxii. 1.</i></p>

  <p>Let the words of my mouth, and the meditation of my heart, be alway acceptable in thy sight, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, my strength and my redeemer. <i>Psalm xix. 14.</i></p>

  <p>O send out thy light and thy truth, that they may lead me, and bring me unto thy holy hill, and to thy dwelling. <i>Psalm xliii. 3.</i></p>

  <p>Thus saith the high and lofty One that inhabiteth eternity, whose name is Holy; I dwell in the high and holy place, with him also that is of a contrite and humble spirit, to revive the spirit of the humble, and to revive the heart of the contrite ones. <i>Isaiah lvii. 15.</i></p>

  <p>The hour cometh, and now is, when the true worshippers shall worship the Father in spirit and in truth: for the Father seeketh such to worship him. <i>St. John iv. 23.</i></p>

  <p>Grace be unto you, and peace, from God our Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ. <i>Phil. i. 2.</i></p>

  <p class="italic">Advent.</p>

  <p>Repent ye, for the Kingdom of heaven is at hand. <i>St. Matt. iii. 2.</i></p>

  <p>Prepare ye the way of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, make straight in the desert a highway for our God. <i>Isaiah xl. 3.</i></p>

  <p class="italic">Christmas.</p>

  <p>Behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Saviour, which is Christ the Lord. <i>St. Luke ii. 10, 11.</i></p>

  <p class="italic">Epiphany.</p>

  <p>From the rising of the sun even unto the going down of the same my Name shall be great among the Gentiles; and in every place incense shall be offered unto my Name, and a pure offering: for my Name shall be great among the heathen, saith the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> of hosts. <i>Mal. i. 11.</i></p>

  <p>Awake, awake; put on thy strength, O Zion; put on thy beautiful garments, O Jerusalem. <i>Isaiah lii. 1.</i></p>

  <p class="italic">Lent.</p>

  <p>Rend your heart, and not your garments, and turn unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> your God: for he is gracious and merciful, slow to anger, and of great kindness, and repenteth him of the evil. <i>Joel ii. 13.</i></p>

  <p>The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit: a broken and a contrite heart, O God, thou wilt not despise. <i>Psalm li. 17.</i></p>

  <p>I will arise and go to my father, and will say unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven, and before thee, and am no more worthy to be called thy son. <i>St. Luke xv. 18, 19.</i></p>

  <p class="italic">Good Friday.</p>

  <p>Is it nothing to you, all ye that pass by? behold, and see if there be any sorrow like unto my sorrow which is done unto me, wherewith the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> hath afflicted me. <i>Lam. i. 12.</i></p>

  <p>In whom we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins, according to the riches of his grace. <i>Eph. i. 7.</i></p>

  <p class="italic">Easter.</p>

  <p>He is risen. The Lord is risen indeed. <i>St. Mark xvi. 6; St. Luke xxiv. 34.</i></p>

  <p>This is the day which the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> hath made; we will rejoice and be glad in it. <i>Psalm cxviii. 24.</i></p>

  <p class="italic">Ascension.</p>

  <p>Seeing that we have a great High Priest, that is passed into the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us come boldly unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy, and find grace to help in time of need. <i>Heb. iv. 14, 16.</i></p>

  <p class="italic">Whitsunday.</p>

  <p>Ye shall receive power, after that the Holy Ghost is come upon you: and ye shall be witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem, and in all Judaea, and in Samaria, and unto the uttermost part of the earth. <i>Acts i. 8.</i></p>

  <p>Because ye are sons, God hath sent forth the Spirit of his Son into your hearts, crying, Abba, Father. <i>Gal. iv. 6.</i></p>

  <p class="italic">Trinity Sunday.</p>

  <p>Holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty, which was, and is, and is to come. <i>Rev. iv. 8.</i></p>

  <p><i>Thanksgiving Day</i>.</p>

  <p>Honour the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> with thy substance, and with the firstfruits of all thine increase: so shall thy barns be filled with plenty, and thy presses shall burst out with new wine. <i>Prov. iii. 9, 10.</i></p>

  <p>The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> by wisdom hath founded the earth; by understanding hath he established the heavens. By his knowledge the depths are broken up, and the clouds drop down the dew. <i>Prov. iii. 19, 20.</i></p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Then the Minister shall say,</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>DEARLY beloved brethren, the Scripture moveth us, in sundry places, to acknowledge and confess our manifold sins and wickedness; and that we should not dissemble nor cloak them before the face of Almighty God our heavenly Father; but confess them with an humble, lowly, penitent, and obedient heart; to the end that we may obtain forgiveness of the same, by his infinite goodness and mercy. And although we ought, at all times, humbly to acknowledge our sins before God; yet ought we chiefly so to do, when we assemble and meet together to render thanks for the great benefits that we have received at his hands, to set forth his most worthy praise, to hear his most holy Word, and to ask those things which are requisite and necessary, as well for the body as the soul. Wherefore I pray and beseech you, as many as are here present, to accompany me with a pure heart, and humble voice, unto the throne of the heavenly grace, saying—</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Or he shall say,</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>LET us humbly confess our sins unto Almighty God.</p>

  <p class="centered italic">A General Confession.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>To be said by the whole Congregation, after the Minister, all kneeling.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>ALMIGHTY and most merciful Father; We have erred, and strayed from thy ways like lost sheep. We have followed too much the devices and desires of our own hearts. We have offended against thy holy laws. We have left undone those things which we ought to have done; And we have done those things which we ought not to have done; And there is no health in us. But thou, O Lord, have mercy upon us, miserable offenders. Spare thou those, O God, who confess their faults. Restore thou those who are penitent; According to thy promises declared unto mankind In Christ Jesus our Lord. And grant, O most merciful Father, for his sake; That we may hereafter live a godly, righteous, and sober life, To the glory of thy holy Name. Amen.</p>

  <p class="centered italic">The Declaration of Absolution, or Remission&nbsp;of&nbsp;Sins.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>To be made by the Priest alone, standing; the People still kneeling.</i></li>

    <li><i>But</i> <span class="smallcaps">Note</span>, <i>That the Priest, at his discretion, may use, instead of what follows, the Absolution from the Order for the Holy Communion.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>ALMIGHTY God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who desireth not the death of a sinner, but rather that he may turn from his wickedness and live, hath given power, and commandment, to his Ministers, to declare and pronounce to his people, being penitent, the Absolution and Remission of their sins. He pardoneth and absolveth all those who truly repent, and unfeignedly believe his holy Gospel.</p>

  <p>Wherefore let us beseech him to grant us true repentance, and his Holy Spirit, that those things may please him which we do at this present; and that the rest of our life hereafter may be pure and holy; so that at the last we may come to his eternal joy; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Then the Minister shall kneel, and say the Lord’s Prayer; the People still kneeling, and repeating it with him, both here, and wheresoever else it is used in Divine Service.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>OUR Father, who art in heaven, Hallowed be thy Name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done, On earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread. And forgive us our trespasses, As we forgive those who trespass against us. And lead us not into temptation, But deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, for ever and ever. Amen.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Then likewise he shall say,</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p class="psalm">O Lord, open thou our lips.</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> And our mouth shall show forth thy praise.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Here, all standing up, the Minister shall say,</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p class="psalm">Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost;</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> As it was in the beginning, is now, and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Minister.</i> Praise ye the Lord.</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> The Lord’s Name be praised.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Then shall be said or sung the following Canticle; except on those days for which other Canticles are appointed; and except also, that Psalm 95 may be used in this place.</i></li>

    <li><i>But</i> <span class="smallcaps">Note</span>, <i>That on Ash Wednesday and Good Friday the Venite may be omitted.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p class="centered bold">+ + +</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>On the days hereafter named, immediately before the Venite may be sung or said,</i></li>

    <li><i>On the Sundays in Advent.</i> Our King and Saviour draweth nigh; * O come, let us adore him.</li>

    <li><i>On Christmas Day and until the Epiphany.</i> Alleluia. Unto us a child is born; * O come, let us adore him. Alleluia.</li>

    <li><i>On the Epiphany and seven days after, and on the Feast of the Transfiguration.</i> The Lord hath manifested forth his glory; * O come, let us adore him.</li>

    <li><i>On Monday in Easter Week and until Ascension Day.</i> Alleluia. The Lord is risen indeed; * O come, let us adore him. Alleluia.</li>

    <li><i>On Ascension Day and until Whitsunday.</i> Alleluia. Christ the Lord ascendeth into heaven; * O come, let us adore him. Alleluia.</li>

    <li><i>On Whitsunday and six days after.</i> Alleluia. The Spirit of the Lord filleth the world; * O come, let us adore him. Alleluia.</li>

    <li><i>On Trinity Sunday.</i> Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, one God; * O come, let us adore him.</li>

    <li><i>On the Purification, and the Annunciation.</i> The Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us; * O come, let us adore him.</li>

    <li><i>On other Festivals for which a proper Epistle and Gospel are ordered.</i> The Lord is glorious in his saints; * O come, let us adore him.</li>
  </ul>

  <p class="centered bold">+ + +</p>

  <p class="centered italic">Venite, exultemus Domino.</p>

  <p class="psalm">O COME, let us sing unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * let us heartily rejoice in the strength of our salvation.</p>

  <p class="psalm">Let us come before his presence with thanksgiving; * and show ourselves glad in him with psalms.</p>

  <p class="psalm">For the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> is a great God; * and a great King above all gods.</p>

  <p class="psalm">In his hand are all the corners of the earth; * and the strength of the hills is his also.</p>

  <p class="psalm">The sea is his, and he made it; * and his hands prepared the dry land.</p>

  <p class="psalm">O come, let us worship and fall down, * and kneel before the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> our Maker.</p>

  <p class="psalm">For he is the Lord our God; * and we are the people of his pasture, and the sheep of his hand.</p>

  <p class="psalm">O worship the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> in the beauty of holiness; * let the whole earth stand in awe of him.</p>

  <p class="psalm">For he cometh, for he cometh to judge the earth; * and with righteousness to judge the world, and the peoples with his truth.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Then shall follow a Portion of the Psalms, according to the use of this Church. And at the end of every Psalm, and likewise at the end of the Venite, Benedictus es, Benedictus, Jubilate, may be, and at the end of the whole Portion, or Selection from the Psalter, shall be sung or said the Gloria Patri:</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>GLORY be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost;</p>

  <p>As it was in the beginning, is now, and ever shall be, * world without end. Amen.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Then shall be read the First Lesson, according to the Table or Calendar. And</i> <span class="smallcaps">Note</span>, <i>That before every Lesson, the Minister shall say,</i> Here beginneth <i>such a</i> Chapter (<i>or</i> Verse of <i>such a</i> Chapter) of <i>such a Book; and after every Lesson,</i> Here endeth the First (<i>or</i> the Second) Lesson.</li>

    <li><i>Here shall be said or sung the following Hymn.</i></li>

    <li><i>But,</i> <span class="smallcaps">Note</span>, <i>That on any day when the Holy Communion is immediately to follow, the Minister at his discretion, after any one of the following Canticles of Morning Prayer has been said or sung, may pass at once to the Communion Service.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p class="centered italic">Te Deum laudamus.</p>

  <p class="psalm">WE praise thee, O God; we acknowledge thee to be the Lord.</p>

  <p class="psalm">All the earth doth worship thee, the Father everlasting.</p>

  <p class="psalm">To thee all Angels cry aloud; the Heavens, and all the Powers therein;</p>

  <p class="psalm">To thee Cherubim and Seraphim continually do cry,</p>

  <p class="psalm">Holy, Holy, Holy, Lord God of Sabaoth;</p>

  <p class="psalm">Heaven and earth are full of the Majesty of thy glory.</p>

  <p class="psalm">The glorious company of the Apostles praise thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">The goodly fellowship of the Prophets praise thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">The noble army of Martyrs praise thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">The holy Church throughout all the world doth acknowledge thee;</p>

  <p class="psalm">The Father, of an infinite Majesty;</p>

  <p class="psalm">Thine adorable, true, and only Son;</p>

  <p class="psalm">Also the Holy Ghost, the Comforter.</p>

  <p class="versicle">THOU art the King of Glory, O Christ.</p>

  <p class="psalm">Thou art the everlasting Son of the Father.</p>

  <p class="psalm">When thou tookest upon thee to deliver man, thou didst humble thyself to be born of a Virgin.</p>

  <p class="psalm">When thou hadst overcome the sharpness of death, thou didst open the Kingdom of Heaven to all believers.</p>

  <p class="psalm">Thou sittest at the right hand of God, in the glory of the Father.</p>

  <p class="psalm">We believe that thou shalt come to be our Judge.</p>

  <p class="psalm">We therefore pray thee, help thy servants, whom thou hast redeemed with thy precious blood.</p>

  <p class="psalm">Make them to be numbered with thy Saints, in glory everlasting.</p>

  <p class="versicle">O LORD, save thy people, and bless thine heritage.</p>

  <p class="psalm">Govern them, and lift them up for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">Day by day we magnify thee;</p>

  <p class="psalm">And we worship thy Name ever, world without end.</p>

  <p class="psalm">Vouchsafe, O Lord, to keep us this day without sin.</p>

  <p class="psalm">O Lord, have mercy upon us, have mercy upon us.</p>

  <p class="psalm">O Lord, let thy mercy be upon us, as our trust is in thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">O Lord, in thee have I trusted; let me never be confounded.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Or this Canticle.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p class="centered italic">Benedictus es, Domine.</p>

  <p class="psalm">BLESSED art thou, O Lord God of our fathers:* praised and exalted above all for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">Blessed art thou for the Name of thy Majesty:* praised and exalted above all for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">Blessed art thou in the temple of thy holiness:* praised and exalted above all for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">Blessed art thou that beholdest the depths, and dwellest between the Cherubim: * praised and exalted above all for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">Blessed art thou on the glorious throne of thy kingdom: * praised and exalted above all for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">Blessed art thou in the firmament of heaven: * praised and exalted above all for ever.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Or this Canticle.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p class="centered italic">Benedicite, omnia opera&nbsp;Domini.</p>

  <p class="psalm">O ALL ye Works of the Lord, bless ye the Lord: * praise him, and magnify him for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">O ye Angels of the Lord, bless ye the Lord: * praise him, and magnify him for ever.</p>

  <p class="versicle">O YE Heavens, bless ye the Lord: * praise him, and magnify him for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">O ye Waters that be above the firmament, bless ye the Lord: * praise him, and magnify him for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">O all ye Powers of the Lord, bless ye the Lord: * praise him, and magnify him for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">O ye Sun and Moon, bless ye the Lord: * praise him, and magnify him for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">O ye Stars of heaven, bless ye the Lord: * praise him, and magnify him for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">O ye Showers and Dew, bless ye the Lord: * praise him, and magnify him for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">O ye Winds of God, bless ye the Lord: * praise him, and magnify him for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">O ye Fire and Heat, bless ye the Lord: * praise him, and magnify him for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">O ye Winter and Summer, bless ye the Lord: * praise him, and magnify him for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">O ye Dews and Frosts, bless ye the Lord: * praise him, and magnify him for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">O ye Frost and Cold, bless ye the Lord: * praise him, and magnify him for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">O ye Ice and Snow, bless ye the Lord: * praise him, and magnify him for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">O ye Nights and Days, bless ye the Lord: * praise him, and magnify him for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">O ye Light and Darkness, bless ye the Lord: * praise him, and magnify him for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">O ye Lightnings and Clouds, bless ye the Lord: * praise him, and magnify him for ever.</p>

  <p class="versicle">O LET the Earth bless the Lord: * yea, let it praise him, and magnify him for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">O ye Mountains and Hills, bless ye the Lord: * praise him, and magnify him for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">O all ye Green Things upon the earth, bless ye the Lord: * praise him, and magnify him for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">O ye Wells, bless ye the Lord: * praise him, and magnify him for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">O ye Seas and Floods, bless ye the Lord: * praise him, and magnify him for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">O ye Whales, and all that move in the waters, bless ye the Lord: * praise him, and magnify him for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">O all ye Fowls of the air, bless ye the Lord: * praise him, and magnify him for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">O all ye Beasts and Cattle, bless ye the Lord: * praise him, and magnify him for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">O ye Children of Men, bless ye the Lord: * praise him, and magnify him for ever.</p>

  <p class="versicle">O LET Israel bless the Lord: * praise him, and magnify him for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">O ye Priests of the Lord, bless ye the Lord: * praise him, and magnify him for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">O ye Servants of the Lord, bless ye the Lord: * praise him, and magnify him for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">O ye Spirits and Souls of the Righteous, bless ye the Lord: * praise him, and magnify him for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">O ye holy and humble Men of heart, bless ye the Lord: * praise him, and magnify him for ever.</p>

  <p class="versicle">LET us bless the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Ghost: * praise him, and magnify him for ever.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Then shall be read in like manner, the Second Lesson, taken out of the New Testament, according to the Table or Calendar.</i></li>

    <li><i>And after that shall be sung or said the Hymn following.</i></li>

    <li><i>But</i> <span class="smallcaps">Note</span>, <i>That, save on the Sundays in Advent, the latter portion thereof may be omitted.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p class="centered"><i>Benedictus.</i> St.&nbsp;Luke&nbsp;i.&nbsp;68.</p>

  <p class="psalm">BLESSED be the Lord God of Israel; * for he hath visited and redeemed his people;</p>

  <p class="psalm">And hath raised up a mighty salvation for us, * in the house of his servant David;</p>

  <p class="psalm">As he spake by the mouth of his holy Prophets, * which have been since the world began;</p>

  <p class="psalm">That we should be saved from our enemies, * and from the hand of all that hate us.</p>

  <p class="psalm">To perform the mercy promised to our forefathers, * and to remember his holy covenant;</p>

  <p class="psalm">To perform the oath which he sware to our forefather Abraham, * that he would give us;</p>

  <p class="psalm">That we being delivered out of the hand of our enemies * might serve him without fear;</p>

  <p class="psalm">In holiness and righteousness before him, * all the days of our life.</p>

  <p class="psalm">And thou, child, shalt be called the prophet of the Highest: * for thou shalt go before the face of the Lord to prepare his ways;</p>

  <p class="psalm">To give knowledge of salvation unto his people * for the remission of their sins,</p>

  <p class="psalm">Through the tender mercy of our God; * whereby the day-spring from on high hath visited us;</p>

  <p class="psalm">To give light to them that sit in darkness, and in the shadow of death, * and to guide our feet into the way of peace.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Or this Psalm</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p class="centered"><i>Jubilate Deo.</i> Psalm&nbsp;c.</p>

  <p class="psalm">O BE joyful in the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, all ye lands: * serve the L<span class="smallcaps">ord</span> with gladness, and come before his presence with a song.</p>

  <p class="psalm">Be ye sure that the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> he is God; it is he that hath made us, and not we ourselves; * we are his people, and the sheep of his pasture.</p>

  <p class="psalm">O go your way into his gates with thanksgiving, and into his courts with praise; * be thankful unto him, and speak good of his Name.</p>

  <p class="psalm">For the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> is gracious, his mercy is everlasting; * and his truth endureth from generation to generation.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Then shall be said the Apostle’s Creed by the Minister and the People, standing. And any Churches may, instead of the words,</i> He descended into Hell, <i>use the words,</i> He went into the place of departed spirits, <i>which are considered as words of the same meaning in the Creed.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>I BELIEVE in God the Father Almighty, Maker of heaven and earth:</p>

  <p>And in Jesus Christ his only Son our Lord: Who was conceived by the Holy Ghost, Born of the Virgin Mary: Suffered under Pontius Pilate, Was crucified, dead, and buried: He descended into hell; The third day he rose again from the dead: He ascended into heaven, And sitteth on the right hand of God the Father Almighty: From thence he shall come to judge the quick and the dead.</p>

  <p>I believe in the Holy Ghost: The holy Catholic Church; The Communion of Saints: The Forgiveness of sins: The Resurrection of the body: And the Life everlasting. Amen.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Or the Creed commonly called the Nicene.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>I BELIEVE in one God the Father Almighty, Maker of heaven and earth, And of all things visible and invisible:</p>

  <p>And in one Lord Jesus Christ, the only-begotten Son of God; Begotten of his Father before all worlds, God of God, Light of Light, Very God of Very God: Begotten, not made; Being of one substance with the Father; By whom all things were made: Who for us men and for our salvation came down from heaven, And was incarnate by the Holy Ghost of the Virgin Mary, And was made man: And was crucified also for us under Pontius Pilate; He suffered and was buried: And the third day he rose again according to the Scriptures: And ascended into heaven, And sitteth on the right hand of God the Father: And he shall come again, with glory, to judge both the quick and the dead; Whose kingdom shall have no end.</p>

  <p>And I believe in the Holy Ghost, The Lord, and Giver of Life, Who proceedeth from the Father and the Son; Who with the Father and the Son together is worshipped and glorified; Who spoke by the Prophets: And I believe one Catholic and Apostolic Church: I acknowledge one Baptism for the remission of sins: And I look for the Resurrection of the dead: And the Life of the world to come. Amen.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>And after that, these Prayers following, the People devoutly kneeling; the Minister first pronouncing,</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p class="psalm">The Lord be with you.</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> And with thy spirit.</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Minister.</i> Let us pray.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Here, if it hath not already been said, shall follow the Lord’s Prayer.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Minister.</i> O Lord, show thy mercy upon us.</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> And grant us thy salvation.</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Minister.</i> O God, make clean our hearts within us.</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> And take not thy Holy Spirit from us.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Then shall follow the Collect of the Day, except when the Communion Service is read; and then the Collect for the Day shall be omitted here.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p class="centered italic">A Collect for Peace.</p>

  <p>O GOD, who art the author of peace and lover of concord, in knowledge of whom standeth our eternal life, whose service is perfect freedom; Defend us thy humble servants in all assaults of our enemies; that we, surely trusting in thy defence, may not fear the power of any adversaries, through the might of Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.</p>

  <p class="centered italic">A Collect for Grace.</p>

  <p>O LORD, our heavenly Father, Almighty and everlasting God, who hast safely brought us to the beginning of this day; Defend us in the same with thy mighty power; and grant that this day we fall into no sin, neither run into any kind of danger; but that all our doings, being ordered by thy governance, may be righteous in thy sight; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>The following Prayers shall be omitted here when the Litany is said, and may be omitted when the Holy Communion is to follow.</i></li>

    <li><i>And</i> <span class="smallcaps">Note</span>, <i>That the Minister may here end the Morning Prayer with such general intercessions taken out of this Book, as he shall think fit, or with the Grace.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p class="centered italic">A Prayer for The President of the United States, and all in Civil&nbsp;Authority.</p>

  <p>O LORD, our heavenly Father, the high and mighty Ruler of the universe, who dost from thy throne behold all the dwellers upon earth; Most heartily we beseech thee, with thy favour to behold and bless thy servant <span class="smallcaps">The President of the United States</span>, and all others in authority; and so replenish them with the grace of thy Holy Spirit, that they may always incline to thy will, and walk in thy way. Endue them plenteously with heavenly gifts; grant them in health and prosperity long to live; and finally, after this life, to attain everlasting joy and felicity; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Or this.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>O LORD our Governor, whose glory is in all the world; We commend this nation to thy merciful care, that being guided by thy Providence, we may dwell secure in thy peace. Grant to <span class="smallcaps">The President of the United States</span> and to all in authority, wisdom and strength to know and to do thy will. Fill them with the love of truth and righteousness; and make them ever mindful of their calling to serve this people in thy fear; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth and reigneth with thee and the Holy Ghost, one God, world without end. Amen.</p>

  <p class="centered italic">A Prayer for the Clergy and&nbsp;People.</p>

  <p>ALMIGHTY and everlasting God, from whom cometh every good and perfect gift; Send down upon our Bishops, and other Clergy, and upon the Congregations committed to their charge, the healthful Spirit of thy grace; and, that they may truly please thee, pour upon them the continual dew of thy blessing. Grant this, O Lord, for the honour of our Advocate and Mediator, Jesus Christ. Amen.</p>

  <p class="centered italic">A Prayer for all Conditions of&nbsp;Men.</p>

  <p>O GOD, the Creator and Preserver of all mankind, we humbly beseech thee for all sorts and conditions of men; that thou wouldest be pleased to make thy ways known unto them, thy saving health unto all nations. More especially we pray for thy holy Church universal; that it may be so guided and governed by thy good Spirit, that all who profess and call themselves Christians may be led into the way of truth, and hold the faith in unity of spirit, in the bond of peace, and in righteousness of life. Finally, we commend to thy fatherly goodness all those who, are any ways afflicted, or distressed, in mind, body, or estate; [{<a href="../Text/Endnotes.xhtml#note_4" id="ref_4">4</a>}<i>especially those for whom our prayers are desired</i>] that it may please thee to comfort and relieve them, according to their several necessities; giving them patience under their sufferings, and a happy issue out of all their afflictions. And this we beg for Jesus Christ’s sake. Amen.</p>

  <p class="centered italic">A General Thanksgiving.</p>

  <p>ALMIGHTY God, Father of all mercies, we, thine unworthy servants, do give thee most humble and hearty thanks for all thy goodness and loving-kindness to us, and to all men; [{<a href="../Text/Endnotes.xhtml#note_5" id="ref_5">5</a>}<i>particularly to those who desire now to offer up their praises and thanksgivings for thy late mercies vouchsafed unto them.</i>] We bless thee for our creation, preservation, and all the blessings of this life; but above all, for thine inestimable love in the redemption of the world by our Lord Jesus Christ; for the means of grace, and for the hope of glory. And, we beseech thee, give us that due sense of all thy mercies, that our hearts may be unfeignedly thankful; and that we show forth thy praise, not only with our lips, but in our lives, by giving up our selves to thy service, and by walking before thee in holiness and righteousness all our days; through Jesus Christ our Lord, to whom, with thee and the Holy Ghost, be all honour and glory, world without end. Amen.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><span class="smallcaps">Note</span>, <i>That the General Thanksgiving may be said by the Congregation with the Minister.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p class="centered italic">A Prayer of St.&nbsp;Chrysostom.</p>

  <p>ALMIGHTY God, who hast given us grace at this time with one accord to make our common supplications unto thee; and dost promise that when two or three are gathered together in thy Name thou wilt grant their requests; Fulfil now, O Lord, the desires and petitions of thy servants, as may be most expedient for them; granting us in this world knowledge of thy truth, and in the world to come life everlasting. Amen.</p>

  <p class="centered">2 Cor. xiii. 14.</p>

  <p>THE grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, and the love of God, and the fellowship of the Holy Ghost, be with us all evermore. Amen.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Here endeth The Order of Morning Prayer.</i></li>
  </ul>
</body>
</html>
