<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Book of Common Prayer - 1928</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/bcp.css" />
</head>

<body>
  <h3 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_2">The Tenth Day.</h3>

  <p class="centered" id="PSM10">Morning Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 50. <i>Deus deorum.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">THE <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, even the Most Mighty God, hath spoken, * and called the world, from the rising up of the sun unto the going down thereof.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Out of Sion hath God appeared * in perfect beauty.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Our God shall come, and shall not keep silence; * there shall go before him a consuming fire, and a mighty tempest shall be stirred up round about him.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 He shall call the heaven from above, * and the earth, that he may judge his people.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Gather my saints together unto me; * those that have made a covenant with me with sacrifice.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 And the heavens shall declare his righteousness; * for God is Judge himself.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 Hear, O my people, and I will speak; * I myself will testify against thee, O Israel; for I am God, even thy God.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 I will not reprove thee because of thy sacrifices; * as for thy burnt offerings, they are alway before me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 I will take no bullock out of thine house, * nor he-goats out of thy folds.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 For all the beasts of the forest are mine, * and so are the cattle upon a thousand hills.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 I know all the fowls upon the mountains, * and the wild beasts of the field are in my sight.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 If I be hungry, I will not tell thee; * for the whole world is mine, and all that is therein.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 Thinkest thou that I will eat bulls’ flesh, * and drink the blood of goats?</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 Offer unto God thanksgiving, * and pay thy vows unto the Most Highest.</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 And call upon me in the time of trouble; * so will I hear thee, and thou shalt praise me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 But unto the ungodly saith God, * Why dost thou preach my laws, and takest my covenant in thy mouth;</p>

  <p class="psalm">17 Whereas thou hatest to be reformed, * and hast cast my words behind thee?</p>

  <p class="psalm">18 When thou sawest a thief, thou consentedst unto him; * and hast been partaker with the adulterers.</p>

  <p class="psalm">19 Thou hast let thy mouth speak wickedness, * and with thy tongue thou hast set forth deceit.</p>

  <p class="psalm">20 Thou sattest and spakest against thy brother; * yea, and hast slandered thine own mother’s son.</p>

  <p class="psalm">21 These things hast thou done, and I held my tongue, and thou thoughtest wickedly, that I am even such a one as thyself; * but I will reprove thee, and set before thee the things that thou hast done.</p>

  <p class="psalm">22 O consider this, ye that forget God, * lest I pluck you away, and there be none to deliver you.</p>

  <p class="psalm">23 Whoso offereth me thanks and praise, he honoureth me; * and to him that ordereth his way aright, will I show the salvation of God.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 51. <i>Miserere mei, Deus.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">HAVE mercy upon me, O God, after thy great goodness; * according to the multitude of thy mercies do away mine offences.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Wash me throughly from my wickedness, * and cleanse me from my sin.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 For I acknowledge my faults, * and my sin is ever before me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Against thee only have I sinned, and done this evil in thy sight; * that thou mightest be justified in thy saying, and clear when thou shalt judge.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Behold, I was shapen in wickedness, * and in sin hath my mother conceived me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 But lo, thou requirest truth in the inward parts, * and shalt make me to understand wisdom secretly.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 Thou shalt purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean; * thou shalt wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Thou shalt make me hear of joy and gladness, * that the bones which thou hast broken may rejoice.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 Turn thy face from my sins, * and put out all my misdeeds.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 Make me a clean heart, O God, * and renew a right spirit within me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 Cast me not away from thy presence, * and take not thy holy Spirit from me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 O give me the comfort of thy help again, * and stablish me with thy free Spirit.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 Then shall I teach thy ways unto the wicked, * and sinners shall be converted unto thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 Deliver me from blood-guiltiness, O God, thou that art the God of my health; * and my tongue shall sing of thy righteousness.</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 Thou shalt open my lips, O Lord, * and my mouth shall show thy praise.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 For thou desirest no sacrifice, else would I give it thee; * but thou delightest not in burnt offerings.</p>

  <p class="psalm">17 The sacrifice of God is a troubled spirit: * a broken and contrite heart, O God, shalt thou not despise.</p>

  <p class="psalm">18 O be favourable and gracious unto Sion; * build thou the walls of Jerusalem.</p>

  <p class="psalm">19 Then shalt thou be pleased with the sacrifice of righteousness, with the burnt offerings and oblations; * then shall they offer young bullocks upon thine altar.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 52. <i>Quid gloriaris?</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">WHY boastest thou thyself, thou tyrant, * that thou canst do mischief;</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Whereas the goodness of God * endureth yet daily?</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Thy tongue imagineth wickedness, * and with lies thou cuttest like a sharp razor.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Thou hast loved unrighteousness more than goodness, * and falsehood more than righteousness.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Thou hast loved to speak all words that may do hurt, * O thou false tongue.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 Therefore shall God destroy thee for ever; * he shall take thee, and pluck thee out of thy dwelling, and root thee out of the land of the living.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 The righteous also shall see this, and fear, * and shall laugh him to scorn:</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Lo, this is the man that took not God for his strength; * but trusted unto the multitude of his riches, and strengthened himself in his wickedness.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 As for me, I am like a green olive-tree in the house of God; * my trust is in the tender mercy of God for ever and ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 I will alway give thanks unto thee for that thou hast done; * and I will hope in thy Name, for thy saints like it well.</p>

  <p class="centered" id="PSE10">Evening Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 53. <i>Dixit insipiens.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">THE foolish body hath said in his heart, * There is no God.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Corrupt are they, and become abominable in their wickedness; * there is none that doeth good.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 God looked down from heaven upon the children of men, * to see if there were any that would understand, and seek after God.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 But they are all gone out of the way, they are altogether become abominable; * there is also none that doeth good, no not one.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Are not they without understanding that work wickedness, * eating up my people as if they would eat bread? they have not called upon God.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 They were afraid where no fear was; * for God hath broken the bones of him that besieged thee; thou hast put them to confusion, because God hath despised them.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 O that the salvation were given unto Israel out of Sion! * O that the Lord would deliver his people out of captivity!</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Then should Jacob rejoice, * and Israel should be right glad.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 54. <i>Deus, in Nomine.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">SAVE me, O God, for thy Name’s sake, * and avenge me in thy strength.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Hear my prayer, O God, * and hearken unto the words of my mouth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 For strangers are risen up against me; * and tyrants, which have not God before their eyes, seek after my soul.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Behold, God is my helper; * the Lord is with them that uphold my soul.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 He shall reward evil unto mine enemies: * destroy thou them in thy truth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 An offering of a free heart will I give thee, and praise thy Name, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * because it is so comfortable.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 For he hath delivered me out of all my trouble; * and mine eye hath seen his desire upon mine enemies.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 55. <i>Exaudi, Deus.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">HEAR my prayer, O God, * and hide not thyself from my petition.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Take heed unto me, and hear me, * how I mourn in my prayer, and am vexed;</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 The enemy crieth so, and the ungodly cometh on so fast; * for they are minded to do me some mischief, so maliciously are they set against me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 My heart is disquieted within me, * and the fear of death is fallen upon me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Fearfulness and trembling are come upon me, * and an horrible dread hath overwhelmed me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 And I said, O that I had wings like a dove! * for then would I flee away, and be at rest.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 Lo, then would I get me away far off, * and remain in the wilderness.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 I would make haste to escape, * because of the stormy wind and tempest.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 Destroy their tongues, O Lord, and divide them; * for I have spied unrighteousness and strife in the city.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 Day and night they go about within the walls thereof: * mischief also and sorrow are in the midst of it.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 Wickedness is therein; * deceit and guile go not out of her streets.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 For it is not an open enemy that hath done me this dishonour; * for then I could have borne it;</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 Neither was it mine adversary that did magnify himself against me; * for then peradventure I would have hid myself from him;</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 But it was even thou, my companion, * my guide, and mine own familiar friend.</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 We took sweet counsel together, * and walked in the house of God as friends.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 Let death come hastily upon them, and let them go down alive into the pit; * for wickedness is in their dwellings, and among them.</p>

  <p class="psalm">17 As for me, I will call upon God, * and the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> shall save me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">18 In the evening, and morning, and at noon-day will I pray, and that instantly; * and he shall hear my voice.</p>

  <p class="psalm">19 It is he that hath delivered my soul in peace from the battle that was against me; * for there were many that strove with me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">20 Yea, even God, that endureth for ever, shall hear me, and bring them down; * for they will not turn, nor fear God.</p>

  <p class="psalm">21 He laid his hands upon such as be at peace with him, * and he brake his covenant.</p>

  <p class="psalm">22 The words of his mouth were softer than butter, having war in his heart; * his words were smoother than oil, and yet be they very swords.</p>

  <p class="psalm">23 O cast thy burden upon the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, and he shall nourish thee, * and shall not suffer the righteous to fall for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">24 And as for them, * thou, O God, shalt bring them into the pit of destruction.</p>

  <p class="psalm">25 The bloodthirsty and deceitful men shall not live out half their days: * nevertheless, my trust shall be in thee, O Lord.</p>
</body>
</html>
