<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Book of Common Prayer - 1928</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/bcp.css" />
</head>

<body>
  <h3 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="PSM11">The Eleventh Day.</h3>

  <p class="centered">Morning Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 56. <i>Miserere mei, Deus.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">BE merciful unto me, O God, for man goeth about to devour me; * he is daily fighting, and troubling me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Mine enemies are daily at hand to swallow me up; * for they be many that fight against me, O thou Most Highest.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Nevertheless, though I am sometime afraid, * yet put I my trust in thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 I will praise God, because of his word: * I have put my trust in God, and will not fear what flesh can do unto me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 They daily mistake my words; * all that they imagine is to do me evil.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 They hold all together, and keep themselves close, * and mark my steps, when they lay wait for my soul.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 Shall they escape for their wickedness? * thou, O God, in thy displeasure shalt cast them down.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Thou tellest my wanderings; put my tears into thy bottle: * are not these things noted in thy book?</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 Whensoever I call upon thee, then shall mine enemies be put to flight: * this I know; for God is on my side.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 In God’s word will I rejoice; * in the <span class="smallcaps">Lord’s</span> word will I comfort me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 Yea, in God have I put my trust; * I will not be afraid what man can do unto me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 Unto thee, O God, will I pay my vows; * unto thee will I give thanks.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 For thou hast delivered my soul from death, and my feet from falling, * that I may walk before God in the light of the living.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 57. <i>Miserere mei, Deus.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">BE merciful unto me, O God, be merciful unto me; for my soul trusteth in thee; * and under the shadow of thy wings shall be my refuge, until this tyranny be overpast.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 I will call unto the Most High God, * even unto the God that shall perform the cause which I have in hand.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 He shall send from heaven, * and save me from the reproof of him that would eat me up.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 God shall send forth his mercy and truth: * my soul is among lions;</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 And I lie even among the children of men, that are set on fire, * whose teeth are spears and arrows, and their tongue a sharp sword.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 Set up thyself, O God, above the heavens; * and thy glory above all the earth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 They have laid a net for my feet, and pressed down my soul; * they have digged a pit before me, and are fallen into the midst of it themselves.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 My heart is fixed, O God, my heart is fixed; * I will sing and give praise.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 Awake up, my glory; awake, lute and harp: * I myself will awake right early.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 I will give thanks unto thee, O Lord, among the peoples; * and I will sing unto thee among the nations.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 For the greatness of thy mercy reacheth unto the heavens, * and thy truth unto the clouds.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 Set up thyself, O God, above the heavens; * and thy glory above all the earth.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 58. <i>Si vere utique.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">ARE your minds set upon righteousness, O ye congregation? * and do ye judge the thing that is right, O ye sons of men?</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Yea, ye imagine mischief in your heart upon the earth, * and your hands deal with wickedness.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 The ungodly are froward, even from their mother’s womb; * as soon as they are born, they go astray, and speak lies.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 They are as venomous as the poison of a serpent, * even like the deaf adder, that stoppeth her ears;</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Which refuseth to hear the voice of the charmer, * charm he never so wisely.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 Break their teeth, O God, in their mouths; * smite the jaw-bones of the lions, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 Let them fall away like water that runneth apace; * when they shoot their arrows, let them be rooted out.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Let them consume away like a snail, and be like the untimely fruit of a woman; * and let them not see the sun.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 Or ever your pots be made hot with thorns, * he shall take them away with a whirlwind, the green and the burning alike.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 The righteous shall rejoice when he seeth the vengeance; * he shall wash his footsteps in the blood of the ungodly.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 So that a man shall say, Verily there is a reward for the righteous; * doubtless there is a God that judgeth the earth.</p>

  <p class="centered" id="PSE11">Evening Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 59. <i>Eripe me de inimicis.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">DELIVER me from mine enemies, O God; * defend me from them that rise up against me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 O deliver me from the wicked doers, * and save me from the bloodthirsty men.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 For lo, they lie waiting for my soul; * the mighty men are gathered against me, without any offence or fault of me, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 They run and prepare themselves without my fault; * arise thou therefore to help me, and behold.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Stand up, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> God of hosts, thou God of Israel, to visit all the heathen, * and be not merciful unto them that offend of malicious wickedness.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 They go to and fro in the evening, * they grin like a dog, and run about through the city.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 Behold, they speak with their mouth, and swords are in their lips; * for who doth hear?</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 But thou, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, shalt have them in derision, * and thou shalt laugh all the heathen to scorn.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 My strength will I ascribe unto thee; * for thou art the God of my refuge.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 God showeth me his goodness plenteously; * and God shall let me see my desire upon mine enemies.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 Slay them not, lest my people forget it; * but scatter them abroad among the people, and put them down, O Lord our defence.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 For the sin of their mouth, and for the words of their lips, they shall be taken in their pride: * and why? their talk is of cursing and lies.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 Consume them in thy wrath, consume them, that they may perish; * and know that it is God that ruleth in Jacob, and unto the ends of the world.</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 And in the evening they will return, * grin like a dog, and will go about the city.</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 They will run here and there for meat, * and grudge if they be not satisfied.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 As for me, I will sing of thy power, and will praise thy mercy betimes in the morning; * for thou hast been my defence and refuge in the day of my trouble.</p>

  <p class="psalm">17 Unto thee, O my strength, will I sing; * for thou, O God, art my refuge, and my merciful God.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 60. <i>Deus, repulisti nos.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">O GOD, thou hast cast us out, and scattered us abroad; * thou hast also been displeased: O turn thee unto us again.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Thou hast moved the land, and divided it: * heal the sores thereof, for it shaketh.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Thou hast showed thy people heavy things; * thou hast given us a drink of deadly wine.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Thou hast given a token for such as fear thee, * that they may triumph because of the truth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Therefore were thy beloved delivered; * help me with thy right hand, and hear me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 God hath spoken in his holiness, I will rejoice, and divide Shechem, * and mete out the valley of Succoth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 Gilead is mine, and Manasseh is mine; * Ephraim also is the strength of my head; Judah is my lawgiver;</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Moab is my wash-pot; over Edom will I cast out my shoe; * Philistia, be thou glad of me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 Who will lead me into the strong city? * who will bring me into Edom?</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 Hast not thou cast us out, O God? * wilt not thou, O God, go out with our hosts?</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 O be thou our help in trouble; * for vain is the help of man.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 Through God will we do great acts; * for it is he that shall tread down our enemies.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 61. <i>Exaudi, Deus.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">HEAR my crying, O God, * give ear unto my prayer.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 From the ends of the earth will I call upon thee, * when my heart is in heaviness.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 O set me up upon the rock that is higher than I; * for thou hast been my hope, and a strong tower for me against the enemy.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 I will dwell in thy tabernacle for ever, * and my trust shall be under the covering of thy wings.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 For thou, O Lord, hast heard my desires, * and hast given an heritage unto those that fear thy Name.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 Thou shalt grant the King a long life, * that his years may endure throughout all generations.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 He shall dwell before God for ever: * O prepare thy loving mercy and faithfulness, that they may preserve him.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 So will I alway sing praise unto thy Name, * that I may daily perform my vows.</p>
</body>
</html>
