<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Book of Common Prayer - 1928</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/bcp.css" />
</head>

<body>
  <h3 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_2">The Twelfth Day.</h3>

  <p class="centered" id="PSM12">Morning Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 62. <i>Nonne Deo?</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">MY soul truly waiteth still upon God; * for of him cometh my salvation.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 He verily is my strength and my salvation; * he is my defence, so that I shall not greatly fall.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 How long will ye imagine mischief against every man? * Ye shall be slain all the sort of you; yea, as a tottering wall shall ye be, and like a broken hedge.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Their device is only how to put him out whom God will exalt; * their delight is in lies; they give good words with their mouth, but curse with their heart.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Nevertheless, my soul, wait thou still upon God; * for my hope is in him.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 He truly is my strength and my salvation; * he is my defence, so that I shall not fall.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 In God is my health and my glory; * the rock of my might; and in God is my trust.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 O put your trust in him alway, ye people; * pour out your hearts before him, for God is our hope.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 As for the children of men, they are but vanity; the children of men are deceitful; * upon the weights they are altogether lighter than vanity itself.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 O trust not in wrong and robbery; give not yourselves unto vanity: * if riches increase, set not your heart upon them.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 God spake once, and twice I have also heard the same, * that power belongeth unto God;</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 And that thou, Lord, art merciful; * for thou rewardest every man according to his work.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 63. <i>Deus, Deus meus.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">O GOD, thou art my God; * early will I seek thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 My soul thirsteth for thee, my flesh also longeth after thee, * in a barren and dry land where no water is.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Thus have I looked for thee in the sanctuary, * that I might behold thy power and glory.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 For thy loving-kindness is better than the life itself: * my lips shall praise thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 As long as I live will I magnify thee in this manner, * and lift up my hands in thy Name.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 My soul shall be satisfied, even as it were with marrow and fatness, * when my mouth praiseth thee with joyful lips.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 Have I not remembered thee in my bed, * and thought upon thee when I was waking?</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Because thou hast been my helper; * therefore under the shadow of thy wings will I rejoice.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 My soul hangeth upon thee; * thy right hand hath upholden me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 These also that seek the hurt of my soul, * they shall go under the earth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 Let them fall upon the edge of the sword, * that they may be a portion for foxes.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 But the King shall rejoice in God; all they also that swear by him shall be commended; * for the mouth of them that speak lies shall be stopped.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 64. <i>Exaudi, Deus.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">HEAR my voice, O God, in my prayer; * preserve my life from fear of the enemy.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Hide me from the gathering together of the froward, * and from the insurrection of wicked doers;</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Who have whet their tongue like a sword, * and shoot out their arrows, even bitter words;</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 That they may privily shoot at him that is perfect: * suddenly do they hit him, and fear not.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 They encourage themselves in mischief, * and commune among themselves, how they may lay snares; and say, that no man shall see them.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 They imagine wickedness, and practise it; * that they keep secret among themselves, every man in the deep of his heart.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 But God shall suddenly shoot at them with a swift arrow, * that they shall be wounded.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Yea, their own tongues shall make them fall; * insomuch that whoso seeth them shall laugh them to scorn.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 And all men that see it shall say, This hath God done; * for they shall perceive that it is his work.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 The righteous shall rejoice in the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, and put his trust in him; * and all they that are true of heart shall be glad.</p>

  <p class="centered" id="PSE12">Evening Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 65. <i>Te decet hymnus.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">THOU, O God, art praised in Sion; * and unto thee shall the vow be performed in Jerusalem.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Thou that hearest the prayer, * unto thee shall all flesh come.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 My misdeeds prevail against me: * O be thou merciful unto our sins.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Blessed is the man whom thou choosest, and receivest unto thee: * he shall dwell in thy court, and shall be satisfied with the pleasures of thy house, even of thy holy temple.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Thou shalt show us wonderful things in thy righteousness, O God of our salvation; * thou that art the hope of all the ends of the earth, and of them that remain in the broad sea.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 Who in his strength setteth fast the mountains, * and is girded about with power.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 Who stilleth the raging of the sea, * and the noise of his waves, and the madness of the peoples.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 They also that dwell in the uttermost parts of the earth shall be afraid at thy tokens, * thou that makest the outgoings of the morning and evening to praise thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 Thou visitest the earth, and blessest it; * thou makest it very plenteous.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 The river of God is full of water: * thou preparest their corn, for so thou providest for the earth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 Thou waterest her furrows; thou sendest rain into the little valleys thereof; * thou makest it soft with the drops of rain, and blessest the increase of it.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 Thou crownest the year with thy goodness; * and thy clouds drop fatness.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 They shall drop upon the dwellings of the wilderness; * and the little hills shall rejoice on every side.</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 The folds shall be full of sheep; * the valleys also shall stand so thick with corn, that they shall laugh and sing.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 66. <i>Jubilate Deo.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">O BE joyful in God, all ye lands; * sing praises unto the honour of his Name; make his praise to be glorious.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Say unto God, O how wonderful art thou in thy works! * through the greatness of thy power shall thine enemies bow down unto thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 For all the world shall worship thee, * sing of thee, and praise thy Name.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 O come hither, and behold the works of God; * how wonderful he is in his doing toward the children of men.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 He turned the sea into dry land, * so that they went through the water on foot; there did we rejoice thereof.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 He ruleth with his power for ever; his eyes behold the nations: * and such as will not believe shall not be able to exalt themselves.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 O praise our God, ye peoples, * and make the voice of his praise to be heard;</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Who holdeth our soul in life; * and suffereth not our feet to slip.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 For thou, O God, hast proved us; * thou also hast tried us, like as silver is tried.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 Thou broughtest us into the snare; * and laidest trouble upon our loins.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 Thou sufferedst men to ride over our heads; * we went through fire and water, and thou broughtest us out into a wealthy place.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 I will go into thine house with burnt offerings, and will pay thee my vows, * which I promised with my lips, and spake with my mouth, when I was in trouble.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 I will offer unto thee fat burnt sacrifices, with the incense of rams; * I will offer bullocks and goats.</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 O come hither, and hearken, all ye that fear God; * and I will tell you what he hath done for my soul.</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 I called unto him with my mouth, * and gave him praises with my tongue.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 If I incline unto wickedness with mine heart, * the Lord will not hear me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">17 But God hath heard me; * and considered the voice of my prayer.</p>

  <p class="psalm">18 Praised be God, who hath not cast out my prayer, * nor turned his mercy from me.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 67. <i>Deus misereatur.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">GOD be merciful unto us, and bless us, * and show us the light of his countenance, and be merciful unto us;</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 That thy way may be known upon earth, * thy saving health among all nations.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Let the peoples praise thee, O God; * yea, let all the peoples praise thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 O let the nations rejoice and be glad; * for thou shalt judge the folk righteously, and govern the nations upon earth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Let the peoples praise thee, O God; * yea, let all the peoples praise thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 Then shall the earth bring forth her increase; * and God, even our own God, shall give us his blessing.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 God shall bless us; * and all the ends of the world shall fear him.</p>
</body>
</html>
