<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Book of Common Prayer - 1928</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/bcp.css" />
</head>

<body>
  <h3 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_2">The Thirteenth Day.</h3>

  <p class="centered" id="PSM13">Morning Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 68. <i>Exsurgat Deus.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">LET God arise, and let his enemies be scattered; * let them also that hate him flee before him.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Like as the smoke vanisheth, so shalt thou drive them away; * and like as wax melteth at the fire, so let the ungodly perish at the presence of God.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 But let the righteous be glad, and rejoice before God; * let them also be merry and joyful.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 O sing unto God, and sing praises unto his Name; magnify him that rideth upon the heavens; * praise him in his Name JAH, and rejoice before him.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 He is a Father of the fatherless, and defendeth the cause of the widows; * even God in his holy habitation.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 He is the God that maketh men to be of one mind in an house, and bringeth the prisoners out of captivity; * but letteth the runagates continue in scarceness.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 O God, when thou wentest forth before the people; * when thou wentest through the wilderness,</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 The earth shook, and the heavens dropped at the presence of God; * even as Sinai also was moved at the presence of God, who is the God of Israel.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 Thou, O God, sentest a gracious rain upon thine inheritance, * and refreshedst it when it was weary.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 Thy congregation shall dwell therein; * for thou, O God, hast of thy goodness prepared for the poor.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 The Lord gave the word; * great was the company of women that bare the tidings.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 Kings with their armies did flee, and were discomfited, * and they of the household divided the spoil.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 Though ye have lain among the sheep-folds, yet shall ye be as the wings of a dove * that is covered with silver wings, and her feathers like gold.</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 When the Almighty scattered kings for their sake, * then were they as white as snow in Salmon.</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 As the hill of Bashan, so is God’s hill; * even an high hill, as the hill of Bashan.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 Why mock ye so, ye high hills? this is God’s hill, in the which it pleaseth him to dwell; * yea, the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> will abide in it for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">17 The chariots of God are twenty thousand, even thousands of angels; * and the Lord is among them as in the holy place of Sinai.</p>

  <p class="psalm">18 Thou art gone up on high, thou hast led captivity captive, and received gifts from men; * yea, even from thine enemies, that the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> God might dwell among them.</p>

  <p class="psalm">19 Praised be the Lord daily, * even the God who helpeth us, and poureth his benefits upon us.</p>

  <p class="psalm">20 He is our God, even the God of whom cometh salvation: * God is the Lord, by whom we escape death.</p>

  <p class="psalm">21 God shall wound the head of his enemies, * and the hairy scalp of such a one as goeth on still in his wickedness.</p>

  <p class="psalm">22 The Lord hath said, I will bring my people again, as I did from Bashan; * mine own will I bring again, as I did sometime from the deep of the sea.</p>

  <p class="psalm">23 That thy foot may be dipped in the blood of thine enemies, * and that the tongue of thy dogs may be red through the same.</p>

  <p class="psalm">24 It is well seen, O God, how thou goest; * how thou, my God and King, goest in the sanctuary.</p>

  <p class="psalm">25 The singers go before, the minstrels follow after, * in the midst of the damsels playing with the timbrels.</p>

  <p class="psalm">26 Give thanks unto God the Lord in the congregation, * ye that are of the fountain of Israel.</p>

  <p class="psalm">27 There is little Benjamin their ruler, and the princes of Judah their council; * the princes of Zebulon, and the princes of Naphthali.</p>

  <p class="psalm">28 Thy God hath sent forth strength for thee; * stablish the thing, O God, that thou hast wrought in us,</p>

  <p class="psalm">29 For thy temple’s sake at Jerusalem; * so shall kings bring presents unto thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">30 Rebuke thou the dragon and the bull, with the leaders of the heathen, so that they humbly bring pieces of silver; * scatter thou the peoples that delight in war;</p>

  <p class="psalm">31 Then shall the princes come out of Egypt; * the Morians’ land shall soon stretch out her hands unto God.</p>

  <p class="psalm">32 Sing unto God, O ye kingdoms of the earth; * O sing praises unto the Lord;</p>

  <p class="psalm">33 Who sitteth in the heavens over all, from the beginning: * lo, he doth send out his voice; yea, and that a mighty voice.</p>

  <p class="psalm">34 Ascribe ye the power to God over Israel; * his worship and strength is in the clouds.</p>

  <p class="psalm">35 O God, wonderful art thou in thy holy places: * even the God of Israel, he will give strength and power unto his people. Blessed be God.</p>

  <p class="centered" id="PSE13">Evening Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 69. <i>Salvum me fac.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">SAVE me, O God; * for the waters are come in, even unto my soul.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 I stick fast in the deep mire, where no ground is; * I am come into deep waters, so that the floods run over me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 I am weary of crying; my throat is dry; * my sight faileth me for waiting so long upon my God.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 They that hate me without a cause are more than the hairs of my head; * they that are mine enemies, and would destroy me guiltless, are mighty.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 I paid them the things that I never took: * God, thou knowest my simpleness, and my faults are not hid from thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 Let not them that trust in thee, O Lord <span class="smallcaps">God</span> of hosts, be ashamed for my cause; * let not those that seek thee be confounded through me, O Lord God of Israel.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 And why? for thy sake have I suffered reproof; * shame hath covered my face.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 I am become a stranger unto my brethren, * even an alien unto my mother’s children.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 For the zeal of thine house hath even eaten me; * and the rebukes of them that rebuked thee are fallen upon me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 I wept, and chastened myself with fasting, * and that was turned to my reproof.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 I put on sackcloth also, * and they jested upon me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 They that sit in the gate speak against me, * and the drunkards make songs upon me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 But, <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, I make my prayer unto thee * in an acceptable time.</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 Hear me, O God, in the multitude of thy mercy, * even in the truth of thy salvation.</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 Take me out of the mire, that I sink not; * O let me be delivered from them that hate me, and out of the deep waters.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 Let not the water-flood drown me, neither let the deep swallow me up; * and let not the pit shut her mouth upon me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">17 Hear me, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, for thy loving-kindness is comfortable; * turn thee unto me according to the multitude of thy mercies.</p>

  <p class="psalm">18 And hide not thy face from thy servant; for I am in trouble: * O haste thee, and hear me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">19 Draw nigh unto my soul, and save it; * O deliver me, because of mine enemies.</p>

  <p class="psalm">20 Thou hast known my reproach, my shame, and my dishonour: * mine adversaries are all in thy sight.</p>

  <p class="psalm">21 Reproach hath broken my heart; I am full of heaviness: * I looked for some to have pity on me, but there was no man, neither found I any to comfort me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">22 They gave me gall to eat; * and when I was thirsty they gave me vinegar to drink.</p>

  <p class="psalm">23 Let their table be made a snare to take themselves withal; * and let the things that should have been for their wealth be unto them an occasion of falling.</p>

  <p class="psalm">24 Let their eyes be blinded, that they see not; * and ever bow thou down their backs.</p>

  <p class="psalm">25 Pour out thine indignation upon them, * and let thy wrathful displeasure take hold of them.</p>

  <p class="psalm">26 Let their habitation be void, * and no man to dwell in their tents.</p>

  <p class="psalm">27 For they persecute him whom thou hast smitten; * and they talk how they may vex them whom thou hast wounded.</p>

  <p class="psalm">28 Let them fall from one wickedness to another, * and not come into thy righteousness.</p>

  <p class="psalm">29 Let them be wiped out of the book of the living, * and not be written among the righteous.</p>

  <p class="psalm">30 As for me, when I am poor and in heaviness, * thy help, O God, shall lift me up.</p>

  <p class="psalm">31 I will praise the Name of God with a song, * and magnify it with thanksgiving.</p>

  <p class="psalm">32 This also shall please the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> * better than a bullock that hath horns and hoofs.</p>

  <p class="psalm">33 The humble shall consider this, and be glad: * seek ye after God, and your soul shall live.</p>

  <p class="psalm">34 For the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> heareth the poor, * and despiseth not his prisoners.</p>

  <p class="psalm">35 Let heaven and earth praise him: * the sea, and all that moveth therein.</p>

  <p class="psalm">36 For God will save Sion, and build the cities of Judah, * that men may dwell there, and have it in possession.</p>

  <p class="psalm">37 The posterity also of his servants shall inherit it; * and they that love his Name shall dwell therein.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 70. <i>Deus, in adjutorium.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">HASTE thee, O God, to deliver me; * make haste to help me, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Let them be ashamed and confounded that seek after my soul; * let them be turned backward and put to confusion that wish me evil.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Let them for their reward be soon brought to shame, * that cry over me, There! there!</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 But let all those that seek thee be joyful and glad in thee: * and let all such as delight in thy salvation say alway, The Lord be praised.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 As for me, I am poor and in misery: * haste thee unto me, O God.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 Thou art my helper, and my redeemer: * O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, make no long tarrying.</p>
</body>
</html>
