<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Book of Common Prayer - 1928</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/bcp.css" />
</head>

<body>
  <h3 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_2">The Fourteenth Day.</h3>

  <p class="centered" id="PSM14">Morning Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 71. <i>In te, Domine, speravi.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">IN thee, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, have I put my trust; let me never be put to confusion, * but rid me and deliver me in thy righteousness; incline thine ear unto me, and save me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Be thou my stronghold, whereunto I may alway resort: * thou hast promised to help me, for thou art my house of defence, and my castle.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Deliver me, O my God, out of the hand of the ungodly, * out of the hand of the unrighteous and cruel man.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 For thou, O Lord <span class="smallcaps">God</span>, art the thing that I long for: * thou art my hope, even from my youth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Through thee have I been holden up ever since I was born: * thou art he that took me out of my mother’s womb: my praise shall be alway of thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 I am become as it were a monster unto many, * but my sure trust is in thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 O let my mouth be filled with thy praise, * that I may sing of thy glory and honour all the day long.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Cast me not away in the time of age; * forsake me not when my strength faileth me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 For mine enemies speak against me; * and they that lay wait for my soul take their counsel together, saying,</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 God hath forsaken him; * persecute him, and take him, for there is none to deliver him.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 Go not far from me, O God; * my God, haste thee to help me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 Let them be confounded and perish that are against my soul; * let them be covered with shame and dishonour that seek to do me evil.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 As for me, I will patiently abide alway, * and will praise thee more and more.</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 My mouth shall daily speak of thy righteousness and salvation; * for I know no end thereof.</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 I will go forth in the strength of the Lord <span class="smallcaps">God</span>, * and will make mention of thy righteousness only.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 Thou, O God, hast taught me from my youth up until now; * therefore will I tell of thy wondrous works.</p>

  <p class="psalm">17 Forsake me not, O God, in mine old age, when I am gray-headed, * until I have showed thy strength unto this generation, and thy power to all them that are yet for to come.</p>

  <p class="psalm">18 Thy righteousness, O God, is very high, * and great things are they that thou hast done: O God, who is like unto thee!</p>

  <p class="psalm">19 O what great troubles and adversities hast thou showed me! and yet didst thou turn and refresh me; * yea, and broughtest me from the deep of the earth again.</p>

  <p class="psalm">20 Thou hast brought me to great honour, * and comforted me on every side:</p>

  <p class="psalm">21 Therefore will I praise thee, and thy faithfulness, O God, playing upon an instrument of music: * unto thee will I sing upon the harp, O thou Holy One of Israel.</p>

  <p class="psalm">22 My lips will be glad when I sing unto thee; * and so will my soul whom thou hast delivered.</p>

  <p class="psalm">23 My tongue also shall talk of thy righteousness all the day long; * for they are confounded and brought unto shame that seek to do me evil.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 72. <i>Deus, judicium.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">GIVE the King thy judgments, O God, * and thy righteousness unto the King’s son.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Then shall he judge thy people according unto right, * and defend the poor.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 The mountains also shall bring peace, * and the little hills righteousness unto the people.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 He shall keep the simple folk by their right, * defend the children of the poor, and punish the wrong doer.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 They shall fear thee, as long as the sun and moon endureth, * from one generation to another.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 He shall come down like the rain upon the mown grass, * even as the drops that water the earth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 In his time shall the righteous flourish; * yea, and abundance of peace, so long as the moon endureth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 His dominion shall be also from the one sea to the other, * and from the River unto the world’s end.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 They that dwell in the wilderness shall kneel before him; * his enemies shall lick the dust.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 The kings of Tarshish and of the isles shall give presents; * the kings of Arabia and Saba shall bring gifts.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 All kings shall fall down before him; * all nations shall do him service.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 For he shall deliver the poor when he crieth; * the needy also, and him that hath no helper.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 He shall be favourable to the simple and needy, * and shall preserve the souls of the poor.</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 He shall deliver their souls from falsehood and wrong; * and dear shall their blood be in his sight.</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 He shall live, and unto him shall be given of the gold of Arabia; * prayer shall be made ever unto him, and daily shall he be praised.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 There shall be an heap of corn in the earth, high upon the hills; the fruit thereof shall shake like Lebanon: * and they of the city shall flourish like grass upon the earth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">17 His Name shall endure for ever; his Name shall remain under the sun among the posterities, which shall be blessed in him; * and all the nations shall praise him.</p>

  <p class="psalm">18 Blessed be the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> God, even the God of Israel, * which only doeth wondrous things;</p>

  <p class="psalm">19 And blessed be the Name of his majesty for ever: * and all the earth shall be filled with his majesty. Amen, Amen.</p>

  <p class="centered" id="PSE14">Evening Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">BOOK III.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 73. <i>Quam bonus Israel!</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">TRULY God is loving unto Israel: * even unto such as are of a clean heart.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Nevertheless, my feet were almost gone, * my treadings had well-nigh slipt.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 And why? I was grieved at the wicked: * I do also see the ungodly in such prosperity.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 For they are in no peril of death; * but are lusty and strong.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 They come in no misfortune like other folk; * neither are they plagued like other men.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 And this is the cause that they are so holden with pride, * and cruelty covereth them as a garment.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 Their eyes swell with fatness, * and they do even what they lust.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 They corrupt other, and speak of wicked blasphemy; * their talking is against the Most High.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 For they stretch forth their mouth unto the heaven, * and their tongue goeth through the world.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 Therefore fall the people unto them, * and thereout suck they no small advantage.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 Tush, say they, how should God perceive it? * is there knowledge in the Most High?</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 Lo, these are the ungodly, * these prosper in the world, and these have riches in possession:</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 And I said, Then have I cleansed my heart in vain, * and washed my hands in innocency.</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 All the day long have I been punished, * and chastened every morning.</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 Yea, and I had almost said even as they; * but lo, then I should have condemned the generation of thy children.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 Then thought I to understand this; * but it was too hard for me,</p>

  <p class="psalm">17 Until I went into the sanctuary of God: * then understood I the end of these men;</p>

  <p class="psalm">18 Namely, how thou dost set them in slippery places, * and castest them down, and destroyest them.</p>

  <p class="psalm">19 O how suddenly do they consume, * perish, and come to a fearful end!</p>

  <p class="psalm">20 Yea, even like as a dream when one awaketh; * so shalt thou make their image to vanish out of the city.</p>

  <p class="psalm">21 Thus my heart was grieved, * and it went even through my reins.</p>

  <p class="psalm">22 So foolish was I, and ignorant, * even as it were a beast before thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">23 Nevertheless, I am alway by thee; * for thou hast holden me by my right hand.</p>

  <p class="psalm">24 Thou shalt guide me with thy counsel, * and after that receive me with glory.</p>

  <p class="psalm">25 Whom have I in heaven but thee? * and there is none upon earth that I desire in comparison of thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">26 My flesh and my heart faileth; * but God is the strength of my heart, and my portion for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">27 For lo, they that forsake thee shall perish; * thou hast destroyed all them that are unfaithful unto thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">28 But it is good for me to hold me fast by God, to put my trust in the Lord <span class="smallcaps">God</span>, * and to speak of all thy works in the gates of the daughter of Sion.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 74. <i>Ut quid, Deus?</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">O GOD, wherefore art thou absent from us so long? * why is thy wrath so hot against the sheep of thy pasture?</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 O think upon thy congregation, * whom thou hast purchased, and redeemed of old.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Think upon the tribe of thine inheritance, * and Mount Sion, wherein thou hast dwelt.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Lift up thy feet, that thou mayest utterly destroy every enemy, * which hath done evil in thy sanctuary.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Thine adversaries roar in the midst of thy congregations, * and set up their banners for tokens.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 He that hewed timber afore out of the thick trees, * was known to bring it to an excellent work.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 But now they break down all the carved work thereof * with axes and hammers.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 They have set fire upon thy holy places, * and have defiled the dwelling-place of thy Name, even unto the ground.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 Yea, they said in their hearts, Let us make havoc of them altogether: * thus have they burnt up all the houses of God in the land.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 We see not our tokens; there is not one prophet more; * no, not one is there among us, that understandeth any more.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 O God, how long shall the adversary do this dishonour? * shall the enemy blaspheme thy Name for ever?</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 Why withdrawest thou thy hand? * why pluckest thou not thy right hand out of thy bosom to consume the enemy?</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 For God is my King of old; * the help that is done upon earth, he doeth it himself.</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 Thou didst divide the sea through thy power; * thou brakest the heads of the dragons in the waters.</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 Thou smotest the heads of leviathan in pieces, * and gavest him to be meat for the people of the wilderness.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 Thou broughtest out fountains and waters out of the hard rocks; * thou driedst up mighty waters.</p>

  <p class="psalm">17 The day is thine, and the night is thine; * thou hast prepared the light and the sun.</p>

  <p class="psalm">18 Thou hast set all the borders of the earth; * thou hast made summer and winter.</p>

  <p class="psalm">19 Remember this, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, how the enemy hath rebuked; * and how the foolish people hath blasphemed thy Name.</p>

  <p class="psalm">20 O deliver not the soul of thy turtle-dove unto the multitude of the enemies; * and forget not the congregation of the poor for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">21 Look upon the covenant; * for all the earth is full of darkness and cruel habitations.</p>

  <p class="psalm">22 O let not the simple go away ashamed; * but let the poor and needy give praise unto thy Name.</p>

  <p class="psalm">23 Arise, O God, maintain thine own cause; * remember how the foolish man blasphemeth thee daily.</p>

  <p class="psalm">24 Forget not the voice of thine enemies: * the presumption of them that hate thee increaseth ever more and more.</p>
</body>
</html>
