<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Book of Common Prayer - 1928</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/bcp.css" />
</head>

<body>
  <h3 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_2">The Fifteenth Day.</h3>

  <p class="centered" id="PSM15">Morning Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 75. <i>Confitebimur tibi.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">UNTO thee, O God, do we give thanks; * yea, unto thee do we give thanks.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Thy Name also is so nigh; * and that do thy wondrous works declare.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 In the appointed time, saith God, * I shall judge according unto right.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 The earth is weak, and all the inhabiters thereof: * I bear up the pillars of it.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 I said unto the fools, Deal not so madly; * and to the ungodly, Set not up your horn.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 Set not up your horn on high, * and speak not with a stiff neck.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 For promotion cometh neither from the east, nor from the west, * nor yet from the south.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 And why? God is the Judge; * he putteth down one, and setteth up another.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 For in the hand of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> there is a cup, and the wine is red; * it is full mixt, and he poureth out of the same.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 As for the dregs thereof, * all the ungodly of the earth shall drink them, and suck them out.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 But I will talk of the God of Jacob, * and praise him for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 All the horns of the ungodly also will I break, * and the horns of the righteous shall be exalted.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 76. <i>Notus in Judæa.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">IN Judah is God known; * his Name is great in Israel.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 At Salem is his tabernacle, * and his dwelling in Sion.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 There brake he the arrows of the bow, * the shield, the sword, and the battle.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Thou art glorious in might, * when thou comest from the hills of the robbers.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 The proud are robbed, they have slept their sleep; * and all the men whose hands were mighty have found nothing.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 At thy rebuke, O God of Jacob, * both the chariot and horse are fallen.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 Thou, even thou art to be feared; * and who may stand in thy sight when thou art angry?</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Thou didst cause thy judgment to be heard from heaven; * the earth trembled, and was still,</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 When God arose to judgment, * and to help all the meek upon earth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 The fierceness of man shall turn to thy praise; * and the fierceness of them shalt thou refrain.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 Promise unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> your God, and keep it, all ye that are round about him; * bring presents unto him that ought to be feared.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 He shall refrain the spirit of princes, * and is wonderful among the kings of the earth.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 77. <i>Voce mea ad Dominum.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">I WILL cry unto God with my voice; * even unto God will I cry with my voice, and he shall hearken unto me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 In the time of my trouble I sought the Lord: * I stretched forth my hands unto him, and ceased not in the night season; my soul refused comfort.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 When I am in heaviness, I will think upon God; * when my heart is vexed, I will complain.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Thou holdest mine eyes waking: * I am so feeble that I cannot speak.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 I have considered the days of old, * and the years that are past.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 I call to remembrance my song, * and in the night I commune with mine own heart, and search out my spirit.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 Will the Lord absent himself for ever? * and will he be no more intreated?</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Is his mercy clean gone for ever? * and is his promise come utterly to an end for evermore?</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 Hath God forgotten to be gracious? * and will he shut up his loving-kindness in displeasure?</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 And I said, It is mine own infirmity; * but I will remember the years of the right hand of the Most Highest.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 I will remember the works of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, * and call to mind thy wonders of old time.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 I will think also of all thy works, * and my talking shall be of thy doings.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 Thy way, O God, is holy: * who is so great a God as our God?</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 Thou art the God that doest wonders, * and hast declared thy power among the peoples.</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 Thou hast mightily delivered thy people, * even the sons of Jacob and Joseph.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 The waters saw thee, O God, the waters saw thee, and were afraid; * the depths also were troubled.</p>

  <p class="psalm">17 The clouds poured out water, the air thundered, * and thine arrows went abroad.</p>

  <p class="psalm">18 The voice of thy thunder was heard round about: * the lightnings shone upon the ground; the earth was moved, and shook withal.</p>

  <p class="psalm">19 Thy way is in the sea, and thy paths in the great waters, * and thy footsteps are not known.</p>

  <p class="psalm">20 Thou leddest thy people like sheep, * by the hand of Moses and Aaron.</p>

  <p class="centered" id="PSE15">Evening Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 78. <i>Attendite, popule.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">HEAR my law, O my people; * incline your ears unto the words of my mouth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 I will open my mouth in a parable; * I will declare hard sentences of old;</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Which we have heard and known, * and such as our fathers have told us;</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 That we should not hide them from the children of the generations to come; * but to show the honour of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, his mighty and wonderful works that he hath done.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 He made a covenant with Jacob, and gave Israel a law, * which he commanded our forefathers to teach their children;</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 That their posterity might know it, * and the children which were yet unborn;</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 To the intent that when they came up, * they might show their children the same;</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 That they might put their trust in God; * and not to forget the works of God, but to keep his commandments;</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 And not to be as their forefathers, a faithless and stubborn generation; * a generation that set not their heart aright, and whose spirit clave not stedfastly unto God;</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 Like as the children of Ephraim; * who being harnessed, and carrying bows, turned themselves back in the day of battle.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 They kept not the covenant of God, * and would not walk in his law;</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 But forgat what he had done, * and the wonderful works that he had showed for them.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 Marvellous things did he in the sight of our fore-fathers, in the land of Egypt, * even in the field of Zoan.</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 He divided the sea, and let them go through; * he made the waters to stand on an heap.</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 In the day-time also he led them with a cloud, * and all the night through with a light of fire.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 He clave the hard rocks in the wilderness, * and gave them drink thereof, as it had been out of the great depth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">17 He brought waters out of the stony rock, * so that it gushed out like the rivers.</p>

  <p class="psalm">18 Yet for all this they sinned more against him, * and provoked the Most Highest in the wilderness.</p>

  <p class="psalm">19 They tempted God in their hearts, * and required meat for their lust.</p>

  <p class="psalm">20 They spake against God also, saying, * Shall God prepare a table in the wilderness?</p>

  <p class="psalm">21 He smote the stony rock indeed, that the water gushed out, and the streams flowed withal; * but can he give bread also, or provide flesh for his people?</p>

  <p class="psalm">22 When the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> heard this, he was wroth; * so the fire was kindled in Jacob, and there came up heavy displeasure against Israel;</p>

  <p class="psalm">23 Because they believed not in God, * and put not their trust in his help.</p>

  <p class="psalm">24 So he commanded the clouds above, * and opened the doors of heaven.</p>

  <p class="psalm">25 He rained down manna also upon them for to eat, * and gave them food from heaven.</p>

  <p class="psalm">26 So man did eat angels’ food; * for he sent them meat enough.</p>

  <p class="psalm">27 He caused the east wind to blow under heaven; * and through his power he brought in the southwest wind.</p>

  <p class="psalm">28 He rained flesh upon them as thick as dust, * and feathered fowls like as the sand of the sea.</p>

  <p class="psalm">29 He let it fall among their tents, * even round about their habitation.</p>

  <p class="psalm">30 So they did eat, and were well filled; for he gave them their own desire: * they were not disappointed of their lust.</p>

  <p class="psalm">31 But while the meat was yet in their mouths, the heavy wrath of God came upon them, and slew the wealthiest of them; * yea, and smote down the chosen men that were in Israel.</p>

  <p class="psalm">32 But for all this they sinned yet more, * and believed not his wondrous works.</p>

  <p class="psalm">33 Therefore their days did he consume in vanity, * and their years in trouble.</p>

  <p class="psalm">34 When he slew them, they sought him, * and turned them early, and inquired after God.</p>

  <p class="psalm">35 And they remembered that God was their strength, * and that the High God was their redeemer.</p>

  <p class="psalm">36 Nevertheless, they did but flatter him with their mouth, * and dissembled with him in their tongue.</p>

  <p class="psalm">37 For their heart was not whole with him, * neither continued they stedfast in his covenant.</p>

  <p class="psalm">38 But he was so merciful, that he forgave their misdeeds, * and destroyed them not.</p>

  <p class="psalm">39 Yea, many a time turned he his wrath away, * and would not suffer his whole displeasure to arise.</p>

  <p class="psalm">40 For he considered that they were but flesh, * and that they were even a wind that passeth away, and cometh not again.</p>

  <p class="psalm">41 Many a time did they provoke him in the wilderness, * and grieved him in the desert.</p>

  <p class="psalm">42 They turned back, and tempted God, * and provoked the Holy One in Israel.</p>

  <p class="psalm">43 They thought not of his hand, * and of the day when he delivered them from the hand of the enemy;</p>

  <p class="psalm">44 How he had wrought his miracles in Egypt, * and his wonders in the field of Zoan.</p>

  <p class="psalm">45 He turned their waters into blood, * so that they might not drink of the rivers.</p>

  <p class="psalm">46 He sent flies among them, and devoured them up; * and frogs to destroy them.</p>

  <p class="psalm">47 He gave their fruit unto the caterpillar, * and their labour unto the grasshopper.</p>

  <p class="psalm">48 He destroyed their vines with hailstones, * and their mulberry trees with the frost.</p>

  <p class="psalm">49 He smote their cattle also with hailstones, * and their flocks with hot thunderbolts.</p>

  <p class="psalm">50 He cast upon them the furiousness of his wrath, anger, displeasure, and trouble: * and sent evil angels among them.</p>

  <p class="psalm">51 He made a way to his indignation, and spared not their soul from death; * but gave their life over to the pestilence;</p>

  <p class="psalm">52 And smote all the firstborn in Egypt, * the most principal and mightiest in the dwellings of Ham.</p>

  <p class="psalm">53 But as for his own people, he led them forth like sheep, * and carried them in the wilderness like a flock.</p>

  <p class="psalm">54 He brought them out safely, that they should not fear, * and overwhelmed their enemies with the sea.</p>

  <p class="psalm">55 And brought them within the borders of his sanctuary, * even to this mountain, which he purchased with his right hand.</p>

  <p class="psalm">56 He cast out the heathen also before them, * caused their land to be divided among them for an heritage, and made the tribes of Israel to dwell in their tents.</p>

  <p class="psalm">57 Yet they tempted and displeased the Most High God, * and kept not his testimonies.</p>

  <p class="psalm">58 They turned their backs, and fell away like their forefathers; * starting aside like a broken bow.</p>

  <p class="psalm">59 For they grieved him with their hill-altars, * and provoked him to displeasure with their images.</p>

  <p class="psalm">60 When God heard this, he was wroth, * and took sore displeasure at Israel;</p>

  <p class="psalm">61 So that he forsook the tabernacle in Shiloh, * even the tent that he had pitched among men.</p>

  <p class="psalm">62 He delivered their power into captivity, * and their beauty into the enemy’s hand.</p>

  <p class="psalm">63 He gave his people over also unto the sword, * and was wroth with his inheritance.</p>

  <p class="psalm">64 The fire consumed their young men, * and their maidens were not given in marriage.</p>

  <p class="psalm">65 Their priests were slain with the sword, * and there were no widows to make lamentation.</p>

  <p class="psalm">66 So the Lord awaked as one out of sleep, * and like a giant refreshed with wine.</p>

  <p class="psalm">67 He drove his enemies backward, * and put them to a perpetual shame.</p>

  <p class="psalm">68 He refused the tabernacle of Joseph, * and chose not the tribe of Ephraim;</p>

  <p class="psalm">69 But chose the tribe of Judah, * even the hill of Sion which he loved.</p>

  <p class="psalm">70 And there he built his temple on high, * and laid the foundation of it like the ground which he hath made continually.</p>

  <p class="psalm">71 He chose David also his servant, * and took him away from the sheep-folds:</p>

  <p class="psalm">72 As he was following the ewes with their young he took him, * that he might feed Jacob his people, and Israel his inheritance.</p>

  <p class="psalm">73 So he fed them with a faithful and true heart, * and ruled them prudently with all his power.</p>
</body>
</html>
