<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Book of Common Prayer - 1928</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/bcp.css" />
</head>

<body>
  <h3 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_2">The Sixteenth Day.</h3>

  <p class="centered" id="PSM16">Morning Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 79. <i>Deus, venerunt.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">O GOD, the heathen are come into thine inheritance; * thy holy temple have they defiled, and made Jerusalem an heap of stones.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 The dead bodies of thy servants have they given to be meat unto the fowls of the air, * and the flesh of thy saints unto the beasts of the land.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Their blood have they shed like water on every side of Jerusalem, * and there was no man to bury them.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 We are become an open shame to our enemies, * a very scorn and derision unto them that are round about us.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, how long wilt thou be angry? * shall thy jealousy burn like fire for ever?</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 Pour out thine indignation upon the heathen that have not known thee; * and upon the kingdoms that have not called upon thy Name.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 For they have devoured Jacob, * and laid waste his dwelling-place.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 O remember not our old sins, but have mercy upon us, and that soon; * for we are come to great misery.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 Help us, O God of our salvation, for the glory of thy Name: * O deliver us, and be merciful unto our sins, for thy Name’s sake.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 Wherefore do the heathen say, * Where is now their God?</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 O let the vengeance of thy servants’ blood that is shed, * be openly showed upon the heathen, in our sight.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 O let the sorrowful sighing of the prisoners come before thee; * according to the greatness of thy power, preserve thou those that are appointed to die.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 And for the blasphemy wherewith our neighbours have blasphemed thee, * reward thou them, O Lord, sevenfold into their bosom.</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 So we, that are thy people, and sheep of thy pasture, shall give thee thanks for ever, * and will alway be showing forth thy praise from generation to generation.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 80. <i>Qui regis Israel.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">HEAR, O thou Shepherd of Israel, thou that leadest Joseph like a flock; * show thyself also, thou that sittest upon the Cherubim.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Before Ephraim, Benjamin, and Manasseh, * stir up thy strength, and come and help us.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Turn us again, O God; * show the light of thy countenance, and we shall be whole.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> God of hosts, * how long wilt thou be angry with thy people that prayeth?</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Thou feedest them with the bread of tears, * and givest them plenteousness of tears to drink.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 Thou hast made us a very strife unto our neighbours, * and our enemies laugh us to scorn.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 Turn us again, thou God of hosts; * show the light of thy countenance, and we shall be whole.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Thou hast brought a vine out of Egypt; * thou hast cast out the heathen, and planted it.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 Thou madest room for it; * and when it had taken root, it filled the land.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 The hills were covered with the shadow of it, * and the boughs thereof were like the goodly cedar trees.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 She stretched out her branches unto the sea, * and her boughs unto the River.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 Why hast thou then broken down her hedge, * that all they that go by pluck off her grapes?</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 The wild boar out of the wood doth root it up, * and the wild beasts of the field devour it.</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 Turn thee again, thou God of hosts, look down from heaven, * behold, and visit this vine;</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 And the place of the vineyard that thy right hand hath planted, * and the branch that thou madest so strong for thyself.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 It is burnt with fire, and cut down; * and they shall perish at the rebuke of thy countenance.</p>

  <p class="psalm">17 Let thy hand be upon the man of thy right hand, * and upon the son of man, whom thou madest so strong for thine own self.</p>

  <p class="psalm">18 And so will not we go back from thee: * O let us live, and we shall call upon thy Name.</p>

  <p class="psalm">19 Turn us again, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> God of hosts; * show the light of thy countenance, and we shall be whole.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 81. <i>Exultate Deo.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">SING we merrily unto God our strength; * make a cheerful noise unto the God of Jacob.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Take the psalm, bring hither the tabret, * the merry harp with the lute.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Blow up the trumpet in the new moon, * even in the time appointed, and upon our solemn feast-day.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 For this was made a statute for Israel, * and a law of the God of Jacob.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 This he ordained in Joseph for a testimony, * when he came out of the land of Egypt, and had heard a strange language.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 I eased his shoulder from the burden, * and his hands were delivered from making the pots.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 Thou calledst upon me in troubles, and I delivered thee; * and heard thee what time as the storm fell upon thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 I proved thee also * at the waters of strife.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 Hear, O my people; and I will assure thee, O Israel, * if thou wilt hearken unto me,</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 There shall no strange god be in thee, * neither shalt thou worship any other god.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 I am the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> thy God, who brought thee out of the land of Egypt: * open thy mouth wide, and I shall fill it.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 But my people would not hear my voice; * and Israel would not obey me;</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 So I gave them up unto their own hearts’ lusts, * and let them follow their own imaginations.</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 O that my people would have hearkened unto me! * for if Israel had walked in my ways,</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 I should soon have put down their enemies, * and turned my hand against their adversaries.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 The haters of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> should have submitted themselves unto him; * but their time should have endured for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">17 I would have fed them also with the finest wheat flour; * and with honey out of the stony rock would I have satisfied thee.</p>

  <p class="centered" id="PSE16">Evening Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 82. <i>Deus stetit.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">GOD standeth in the congregation of princes; * he is a Judge among gods.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 How long will ye give wrong judgment, * and accept the persons of the ungodly?</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Defend the poor and fatherless; * see that such as are in need and necessity have right.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Deliver the outcast and poor; * save them from the hand of the ungodly.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 They know not, neither do they understand, but walk on still in darkness: * all the foundations of the earth are out of course.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 I have said, Ye are gods, * and ye are all the children of the Most Highest.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 But ye shall die like men, * and fall like one of the princes.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Arise, O God, and judge thou the earth; * for thou shalt take all nations to thine inheritance.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 83. <i>Deus, quis similis?</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">HOLD not thy tongue, O God, keep not still silence: * refrain not thyself, O God.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 For lo, thine enemies make a murmuring; * and they that hate thee have lift up their head.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 They have imagined craftily against thy people, * and taken counsel against thy secret ones.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 They have said, Come, and let us root them out, that they be no more a people, * and that the name of Israel may be no more in remembrance.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 For they have cast their heads together with one consent, * and are confederate against thee:</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 The tabernacles of the Edomites, and the Ishmaelites; * the Moabites, and Hagarenes;</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 Gebal, and Ammon, and Amalek; * the Philistines, with them that dwell at Tyre.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Assyria also is joined with them; * they have holpen the children of Lot.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 But do thou to them as unto the Midianites; * unto Sisera, and unto Jabin at the brook of Kishon;</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 Who perished at Endor, * and became as the dung of the earth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 Make them and their princes like Oreb and Zeeb; * yea, make all their princes like as Zebah and Zalmunna;</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 Who say, Let us take to ourselves * the houses of God in possession.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 O my God, make them like unto the whirling dust, * and as the stubble before the wind;</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 Like as the fire that burneth up the forest, * and as the flame that consumeth the mountains;</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 Pursue them even so with thy tempest, * and make them afraid with thy storm.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 Make their faces ashamed, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, * that they may seek thy Name.</p>

  <p class="psalm">17 Let them be confounded and vexed ever more and more; * let them be put to shame, and perish.</p>

  <p class="psalm">18 And they shall know that thou, whose Name is JEHOVAH, * art only the Most Highest over all the earth.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 84. <i>Quam dilecta!</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">O HOW amiable are thy dwellings, * thou Lord of hosts!</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 My soul hath a desire and longing to enter into the courts of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * my heart and my flesh rejoice in the living God.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Yea, the sparrow hath found her an house, and the swallow a nest, where she may lay her young; * even thy altars, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> of hosts, my King and my God.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Blessed are they that dwell in thy house; * they will be alway praising thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Blessed is the man whose strength is in thee; * in whose heart are thy ways.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 Who going through the vale of misery use it for a well; * and the pools are filled with water.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 They will go from strength to strength, * and unto the God of gods appeareth every one of them in Sion.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> God of hosts, hear my prayer; * hearken, O God of Jacob.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 Behold, O God our defender, * and look upon the face of thine anointed.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 For one day in thy courts * is better than a thousand.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 I had rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God, * than to dwell in the tents of ungodliness.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 For the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> God is a light and defence; * the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> will give grace and worship; and no good thing shall he withhold from them that live a godly life.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> God of hosts, * blessed is the man that putteth his trust in thee.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 85. <i>Benedixisti, Domine.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">LORD, thou art become gracious unto thy land; * thou hast turned away the captivity of Jacob.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Thou hast forgiven the offence of thy people, * and covered all their sins.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Thou hast taken away all thy displeasure, * and turned thyself from thy wrathful indignation.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Turn us then, O God our Saviour, * and let thine anger cease from us.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Wilt thou be displeased at us for ever? * and wilt thou stretch out thy wrath from one generation to another?</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 Wilt thou not turn again, and quicken us, * that thy people may rejoice in thee?</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 Show us thy mercy, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, * and grant us thy salvation.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 I will hearken what the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> God will say; * for he shall speak peace unto his people, and to his saints, that they turn not again unto foolishness.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 For his salvation is nigh them that fear him; * that glory may dwell in our land.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 Mercy and truth are met together: * righteousness and peace have kissed each other.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 Truth shall flourish out of the earth, * and righteousness hath looked down from heaven.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 Yea, the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> shall show loving-kindness; * and our land shall give her increase.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 Righteousness shall go before him, * and shall direct his going in the way.</p>
</body>
</html>
