<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Book of Common Prayer - 1928</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/bcp.css" />
</head>

<body>
  <h3 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_2">The Seventeenth Day.</h3>

  <p class="centered" id="PSM17">Morning Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 86. <i>Inclina, Domine.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">BOW down thine ear, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, and hear me; * for I am poor, and in misery.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Preserve thou my soul, for I am holy: * my God, save thy servant that putteth his trust in thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Be merciful unto me, O Lord; * for I will call daily upon thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Comfort the soul of thy servant; * for unto thee, O Lord, do I lift up my soul.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 For thou, Lord, art good and gracious, * and of great mercy unto all them that call upon thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 Give ear, <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, unto my prayer, * and ponder the voice of my humble desires.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 In the time of my trouble I will call upon thee; * for thou hearest me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Among the gods there is none like unto thee, O Lord; * there is not one that can do as thou doest.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 All nations whom thou hast made shall come and worship thee, O Lord; * and shall glorify thy Name.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 For thou art great, and doest wondrous things: * thou art God alone.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 Teach me thy way, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, and I will walk in thy truth: * O knit my heart unto thee, that I may fear thy Name.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 I will thank thee, O Lord my God, with all my heart; * and will praise thy Name for evermore.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 For great is thy mercy toward me; * and thou hast delivered my soul from the nethermost hell.</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 O God, the proud are risen against me; * and the congregations of violent men have sought after my soul, and have not set thee before their eyes.</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 But thou, O Lord God, art full of compassion and mercy, * long-suffering, plenteous in goodness and truth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 O turn thee then unto me, and have mercy upon me; * give thy strength unto thy servant, and help the son of thine handmaid.</p>

  <p class="psalm">17 Show some token upon me for good; that they who hate me may see it, and be ashamed, * because thou, <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, hast holpen me, and comforted me.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 87. <i>Fundamenta ejus.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">HER foundations are upon the holy hills: * the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> loveth the gates of Sion more than all the dwellings of Jacob.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Very excellent things are spoken of thee, * thou city of God.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 I will make mention of Egypt and Babylon, * among them that know me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Behold, Philistia also; and Tyre, with Ethiopia; * lo, in Sion were they born.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Yea, of Sion it shall be reported, this one and that one were born in her; * and the Most High shall stablish her.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> shall record it, when he writeth up the peoples; * lo, in Sion were they born.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 The singers also and trumpeters shall make answer: * All my fresh springs are in thee.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 88. <i>Domine, Deus.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">O LORD God of my salvation, I have cried day and night before thee: * O let my prayer enter into thy presence, incline thine ear unto my calling;</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 For my soul is full of trouble, * and my life draweth nigh unto the grave.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 I am counted as one of them that go down into the pit, * and I am even as a man that hath no strength;</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Cast off among the dead, like unto them that are slain, and lie in the grave, * who are out of remembrance, and are cut away from thy hand.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Thou hast laid me in the lowest pit, * in a place of darkness, and in the deep.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 Thine indignation lieth hard upon me, * and thou hast vexed me with all thy storms.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 Thou hast put away mine acquaintance far from me, * and made me to be abhorred of them.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 I am so fast in prison * that I cannot get forth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 My sight faileth for very trouble; * <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, I have called daily upon thee, I have stretched forth my hands unto thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 Dost thou show wonders among the dead? * or shall the dead rise up again, and praise thee?</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 Shall thy loving-kindness be showed in the grave? * or thy faithfulness in destruction?</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 Shall thy wondrous works be known in the dark? * and thy righteousness in the land where all things are forgotten?</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 Unto thee have I cried, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * and early shall my prayer come before thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, why abhorrest thou my soul, * and hidest thou thy face from me?</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 I am in misery, and like unto him that is at the point to die; * even from my youth up, thy terrors have I suffered with a troubled mind.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 Thy wrathful displeasure goeth over me, * and the fear of thee hath undone me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">17 They came round about me daily like water, * and compassed me together on every side.</p>

  <p class="psalm">18 My lovers and friends hast thou put away from me, * and hid mine acquaintance out of my sight.</p>

  <p class="centered" id="PSE17">Evening Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 89. <i>Misericordias Domini.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">MY song shall be alway of the loving-kindness of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * with my mouth will I ever be showing thy truth from one generation to another.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 For I have said, Mercy shall be set up for ever; * thy truth shalt thou stablish in the heavens.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 I have made a covenant with my chosen; * I have sworn unto David my servant:</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Thy seed will I stablish for ever, * and set up thy throne from one generation to another.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, the very heavens shall praise thy wondrous works; * and thy truth in the congregation of the saints.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 For who is he among the clouds, * that shall be compared unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>?</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 And what is he among the gods, * that shall be like unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>?</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 God is very greatly to be feared in the council of the saints, * and to be had in reverence of all them that are round about him.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> God of hosts, who is like unto thee? * thy truth, most mighty <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, is on every side.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 Thou rulest the raging of the sea; * thou stillest the waves thereof when they arise.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 Thou hast subdued Egypt, and destroyed it; * thou hast scattered thine enemies abroad with thy mighty arm.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 The heavens are thine, the earth also is thine; * thou hast laid the foundation of the round world, and all that therein is.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 Thou hast made the north and the south; * Tabor and Hermon shall rejoice in thy Name.</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 Thou hast a mighty arm; * strong is thy hand, and high is thy right hand.</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 Righteousness and equity are the habitation of thy seat; * mercy and truth shall go before thy face.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 Blessed is the people, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, that can rejoice in thee; * they shall walk in the light of thy countenance.</p>

  <p class="psalm">17 Their delight shall be daily in thy Name; * and in thy righteousness shall they make their boast.</p>

  <p class="psalm">18 For thou art the glory of their strength, * and in thy loving-kindness thou shalt lift up our horns.</p>

  <p class="psalm">19 For the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> is our defence; * the Holy One of Israel is our King.</p>

  <p class="psalm">20 Thou spakest sometime in visions unto thy saints, and saidst, * I have laid help upon one that is mighty, I have exalted one chosen out of the people.</p>

  <p class="psalm">21 I have found David my servant; * with my holy oil have I anointed him.</p>

  <p class="psalm">22 My hand shall hold him fast, * and my arm shall strengthen him.</p>

  <p class="psalm">23 The enemy shall not be able to do him violence; * the son of wickedness shall not hurt him.</p>

  <p class="psalm">24 I will smite down his foes before his face, * and plague them that hate him.</p>

  <p class="psalm">25 My truth also and my mercy shall be with him; * and in my Name shall his horn be exalted.</p>

  <p class="psalm">26 I will set his dominion also in the sea, * and his right hand in the floods.</p>

  <p class="psalm">27 He shall call me, Thou art my Father, * my God, and my strong salvation.</p>

  <p class="psalm">28 And I will make him my firstborn, * higher than the kings of the earth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">29 My mercy will I keep for him for evermore, * and my covenant shall stand fast with him.</p>

  <p class="psalm">30 His seed also will I make to endure for ever, * and his throne as the days of heaven.</p>

  <p class="psalm">31 But if his children forsake my law, * and walk not in my judgments;</p>

  <p class="psalm">32 If they break my statutes, and keep not my commandments; * I will visit their offences with the rod, and their sin with scourges.</p>

  <p class="psalm">33 Nevertheless, my loving-kindness will I not utterly take from him, * nor suffer my truth to fail.</p>

  <p class="psalm">34 My covenant will I not break, nor alter the thing that is gone out of my lips: * I have sworn once by my holiness, that I will not fail David.</p>

  <p class="psalm">35 His seed shall endure for ever, * and his throne is like as the sun before me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">36 He shall stand fast for evermore as the moon, * and as the faithful witness in heaven.</p>

  <p class="psalm">37 But thou hast abhorred and forsaken thine anointed, * and art displeased at him.</p>

  <p class="psalm">38 Thou hast broken the covenant of thy servant, * and cast his crown to the ground.</p>

  <p class="psalm">39 Thou hast overthrown all his hedges, * and broken down his strongholds.</p>

  <p class="psalm">40 All they that go by spoil him, * and he is become a reproach to his neighbours.</p>

  <p class="psalm">41 Thou hast set up the right hand of his enemies, * and made all his adversaries to rejoice.</p>

  <p class="psalm">42 Thou hast taken away the edge of his sword, * and givest him not victory in the battle.</p>

  <p class="psalm">43 Thou hast put out his glory, * and cast his throne down to the ground.</p>

  <p class="psalm">44 The days of his youth hast thou shortened, * and covered him with dishonour.</p>

  <p class="psalm">45 <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, how long wilt thou hide thyself? for ever? * and shall thy wrath burn like fire?</p>

  <p class="psalm">46 O remember how short my time is; * wherefore hast thou made all men for nought?</p>

  <p class="psalm">47 What man is he that liveth, and shall not see death? * and shall he deliver his soul from the power of the grave?</p>

  <p class="psalm">48 Lord, where are thy old loving-kindnesses, * which thou swarest unto David in thy truth?</p>

  <p class="psalm">49 Remember, Lord, the rebuke that thy servants have, * and how I do bear in my bosom the rebukes of many people;</p>

  <p class="psalm">50 Wherewith thine enemies have blasphemed thee, * and slandered the footsteps of thine anointed.</p>

  <p class="psalm">51 Praised be the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> for evermore. * Amen, and Amen.</p>
</body>
</html>
