<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Book of Common Prayer - 1928</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/bcp.css" />
</head>

<body>
  <h3 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_2">The Eighteenth Day.</h3>

  <p class="centered" id="PSM18">Morning Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">BOOK IV.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 90. <i>Domine, refugium.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">LORD, thou hast been our refuge, * from one generation to another.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Before the mountains were brought forth, or ever the earth and the world were made, * thou art God from everlasting, and world without end.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Thou turnest man to destruction; * again thou sayest, Come again, ye children of men.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 For a thousand years in thy sight are but as yesterday when it is past, * and as a watch in the night.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 As soon as thou scatterest them they are even as a sleep; * and fade away suddenly like the grass.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 In the morning it is green, and groweth up; * but in the evening it is cut down, dried up, and withered.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 For we consume away in thy displeasure, * and are afraid at thy wrathful indignation.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Thou hast set our misdeeds before thee; * and our secret sins in the light of thy countenance.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 For when thou art angry all our days are gone: * we bring our years to an end, as it were a tale that is told.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 The days of our age are threescore years and ten; and though men be so strong that they come to fourscore years, * yet is their strength then but labour and sorrow; so soon passeth it away, and we are gone.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 But who regardeth the power of thy wrath? * or feareth aright thy indignation?</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 So teach us to number our days, * that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 Turn thee again, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, at the last, * and be gracious unto thy servants.</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 O satisfy us with thy mercy, and that soon: * so shall we rejoice and be glad all the days of our life.</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 Comfort us again now after the time that thou hast plagued us; * and for the years wherein we have suffered adversity.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 Show thy servants thy work, * and their children thy glory.</p>

  <p class="psalm">17 And the glorious majesty of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> our God be upon us: * prosper thou the work of our hands upon us; O prosper thou our handy-work.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 91. <i>Qui habitat.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">WHOSO dwelleth under the defence of the Most High, * shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 I will say unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, Thou art my hope, and my stronghold; * my God, in him will I trust.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 For he shall deliver thee from the snare of the hunter, * and from the noisome pestilence.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 He shall defend thee under his wings, and thou shalt be safe under his feathers; * his faithfulness and truth shall be thy shield and buckler.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Thou shalt not be afraid for any terror by night, * nor for the arrow that flieth by day;</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 For the pestilence that walketh in darkness, * nor for the sickness that destroyeth in the noon-day.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 A thousand shall fall beside thee, and ten thousand at thy right hand; * but it shall not come nigh thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Yea, with thine eyes shalt thou behold, * and see the reward of the ungodly.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 For thou, <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, art my hope; * thou hast set thine house of defence very high.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 There shall no evil happen unto thee, * neither shall any plague come nigh thy dwelling.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 For he shall give his angels charge over thee, * to keep thee in all thy ways.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 They shall bear thee in their hands, * that thou hurt not thy foot against a stone.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 Thou shalt go upon the lion and adder: * the young lion and the dragon shalt thou tread under thy feet.</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 Because he hath set his love upon me, therefore will I deliver him; * I will set him up, because he hath known my Name.</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 He shall call upon me, and I will hear him; * yea, I am with him in trouble; I will deliver him, and bring him to honour.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 With long life will I satisfy him, * and show him my salvation.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 92. <i>Bonum est confiteri.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">IT is a good thing to give thanks unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, * and to sing praises unto thy Name, O Most Highest;</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 To tell of thy loving-kindness early in the morning, * and of thy truth in the night season;</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Upon an instrument of ten strings, and upon the lute; * upon a loud instrument, and upon the harp.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 For thou, <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, hast made me glad through thy works; * and I will rejoice in giving praise for the operations of thy hands.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, how glorious are thy works! * thy thoughts are very deep.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 An unwise man doth not well consider this, * and a fool doth not understand it.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 When the ungodly are green as the grass, and when all the workers of wickedness do flourish, * then shall they be destroyed for ever; but thou, Lord, art the Most Highest for evermore.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 For lo, thine enemies, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, lo, thine enemies shall perish; * and all the workers of wickedness shall be destroyed.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 But my horn shall be exalted like the horn of an unicorn; * for I am anointed with fresh oil.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 Mine eye also shall see his lust of mine enemies, * and mine ear shall hear his desire of the wicked that arise up against me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 The righteous shall flourish like a palm tree, * and shall spread abroad like a cedar in Lebanon.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 Such as are planted in the house of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, * shall flourish in the courts of the house of our God.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 They also shall bring forth more fruit in their age, * and shall be fat and well-liking;</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 That they may show how true the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> my strength is, * and that there is no unrighteousness in him.</p>

  <p class="centered" id="PSE18">Evening Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 93. <i>Dominus regnavit.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">THE <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> is King, and hath put on glorious apparel; * the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> hath put on his apparel, and girded himself with strength.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 He hath made the round world so sure, * that it cannot be moved.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Ever since the world began, hath thy seat been prepared: * thou art from everlasting.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 The floods are risen, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, the floods have lift up their voice; * the floods lift up their waves.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 The waves of the sea are mighty, and rage horribly; * but yet the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, who dwelleth on high, is mightier.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 Thy testimonies, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, are very sure: * holiness becometh thine house for ever.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 94. <i>Deus ultionum.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">O LORD God, to whom vengeance belongeth, * thou God, to whom vengeance belongeth, show thyself.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Arise, thou Judge of the world, * and reward the proud after their deserving.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, how long shall the ungodly, * how long shall the ungodly triumph?</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 How long shall all wicked doers speak so disdainfully, * and make such proud boasting?</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 They smite down thy people, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, * and trouble thine heritage.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 They murder the widow and the stranger, * and put the fatherless to death.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 And yet they say, Tush, the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> shall not see, * neither shall the God of Jacob regard it.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Take heed, ye unwise among the people: * O ye fools, when will ye understand?</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 He that planted the ear, shall he not hear? * or he that made the eye, shall he not see?</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 Or he that instructeth the heathen, * it is he that teacheth man knowledge; shall not he punish?</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> knoweth the thoughts of man, * that they are but vain.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 Blessed is the man whom thou chastenest, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, * and teachest him in thy law;</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 That thou mayest give him patience in time of adversity, * until the pit be digged up for the ungodly.</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 For the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> will not fail his people; * neither will he forsake his inheritance;</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 Until righteousness turn again unto judgment: * all such as are true in heart shall follow it.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 Who will rise up with me against the wicked? * or who will take my part against the evil doers?</p>

  <p class="psalm">17 If the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> had not helped me, * it had not failed, but my soul had been put to silence.</p>

  <p class="psalm">18 But when I said, My foot hath slipt; * thy mercy, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, held me up.</p>

  <p class="psalm">19 In the multitude of the sorrows that I had in my heart, * thy comforts have refreshed my soul.</p>

  <p class="psalm">20 Wilt thou have any thing to do with the throne of wickedness, * which imagineth mischief as a law?</p>

  <p class="psalm">21 They gather them together against the soul of the righteous, * and condemn the innocent blood.</p>

  <p class="psalm">22 But the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> is my refuge, * and my God is the strength of my confidence.</p>

  <p class="psalm">23 He shall recompense them their wickedness, and destroy them in their own malice; * yea, the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> our God shall destroy them.</p>
</body>
</html>
