<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Book of Common Prayer - 1928</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/bcp.css" />
</head>

<body>
  <h3 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_2">The Nineteenth Day.</h3>

  <p class="centered" id="PSM19">Morning Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 95. <i>Venite, exultemus.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">O COME, let us sing unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * let us heartily rejoice in the strength of our salvation.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Let us come before his presence with thanksgiving; * and show ourselves glad in him with psalms.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 For the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> is a great God; * and a great King above all gods.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 In his hand are all the corners of the earth; * and the strength of the hills is his also.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 The sea is his, and he made it; * and his hands prepared the dry land.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 O come, let us worship and fall down, * and kneel before the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> our Maker.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 For he is the Lord our God; * and we are the people of his pasture, and the sheep of his hand.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Today if ye will hear his voice, harden not your hearts * as in the provocation, and as in the day of temptation in the wilderness;</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 When your fathers tempted me, * proved me, and saw my works.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 Forty years long was I grieved with this generation, and said, * It is a people that do err in their hearts, for they have not known my ways:</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 Unto whom I sware in my wrath, * that they should not enter into my rest.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 96. <i>Cantate Domino.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">O SING unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> a new song; * sing unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, all the whole earth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Sing unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, and praise his Name; * be telling of his salvation from day to day.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Declare his honour unto the heathen, * and his wonders unto all peoples.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 For the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> is great, and cannot worthily be praised;* he is more to be feared than all gods.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 As for all the gods of the heathen, they are but idols; * but it is the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> that made the heavens.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 Glory and worship are before him; * power and honour are in his sanctuary.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 Ascribe unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, O ye kindreds of the peoples, * ascribe unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> worship and power.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Ascribe unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> the honour due unto his Name; * bring presents, and come into his courts.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 O worship the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> in the beauty of holiness; * let the whole earth stand in awe of him.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 Tell it out among the heathen, that the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> is King, and that it is he who hath made the round world so fast that it cannot be moved; * and how that he shall judge the peoples righteously.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 Let the heavens rejoice, and let the earth be glad; * let the sea make a noise, and all that therein is.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 Let the field be joyful, and all that is in it; * then shall all the trees of the wood rejoice before the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 For he cometh, for he cometh to judge the earth; * and with righteousness to judge the world, and the peoples with his truth.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 97. <i>Dominus regnavit.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">THE <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> is King, the earth may be glad thereof; * yea, the multitude of the isles may be glad thereof.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Clouds and darkness are round about him: * righteousness and judgment are the habitation of his seat.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 There shall go a fire before him, * and burn up his enemies on every side.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 His lightnings gave shine unto the world: * the earth saw it, and was afraid.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 The hills melted like wax at the presence of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * at the presence of the Lord of the whole earth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 The heavens have declared his righteousness, * and all the peoples have seen his glory.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 Confounded be all they that worship carved images, and that delight in vain gods: * worship him, all ye gods.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Sion heard of it, and rejoiced; and the daughters of Judah were glad, * because of thy judgments, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 For thou, <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, art higher than all that are in the earth: * thou art exalted far above all gods.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 O ye that love the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, see that ye hate the thing which is evil: * the Lord preserveth the souls of his saints; he shall deliver them from the hand of the ungodly.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 There is sprung up a light for the righteous, * and joyful gladness for such as are true-hearted.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 Rejoice in the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, ye righteous; * and give thanks for a remembrance of his holiness.</p>

  <p class="centered" id="PSE19">Evening Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 98. <i>Cantate Domino.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">O SING unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> a new song; * for he hath done marvellous things.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 With his own right hand, and with his holy arm, * hath he gotten himself the victory.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> declared his salvation; * his righteousness hath he openly showed in the sight of the heathen.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 He hath remembered his mercy and truth toward the house of Israel; * and all the ends of the world have seen the salvation of our God.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Show yourselves joyful unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, all ye lands; * sing, rejoice, and give thanks.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 Praise the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> upon the harp; * sing to the harp with a psalm of thanksgiving.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 With trumpets also and shawms, * O show yourselves joyful before the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, the King.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Let the sea make a noise, and all that therein is; * the round world, and they that dwell therein.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 Let the floods clap their hands, and let the hills be joyful together before the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * for he is come to judge the earth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 With righteousness shall he judge the world, * and the peoples with equity.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 99. <i>Dominus regnavit.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">THE <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> is King, be the people never so impatient; * he sitteth between the Cherubim, be the earth never so unquiet.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> is great in Sion, * and high above all people.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 They shall give thanks unto thy Name, * which is great, wonderful, and holy.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 The King’s power loveth judgment; thou hast prepared equity, * thou hast executed judgment and righteousness in Jacob.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 O magnify the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> our God, and fall down before his footstool; * for he is holy.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 Moses and Aaron among his priests, and Samuel among such as call upon his Name: * these called upon the Lord, and he heard them.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 He spake unto them out of the cloudy pillar; * for they kept his testimonies, and the law that he gave them.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Thou heardest them, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> our God; * thou forgavest them, O God, though thou didst punish their wicked doings.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 O magnify the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> our God, and worship him upon his holy hill; * for the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> our God is holy.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 100. <i>Jubilate Deo.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">O BE joyful in the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, all ye lands: * serve the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> with gladness, and come before his presence with a song.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Be ye sure that the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> he is God; it is he that hath made us, and not we ourselves; * we are his people, and the sheep of his pasture.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 O go your way into his gates with thanksgiving, and into his courts with praise; * be thankful unto him, and speak good of his Name.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 For the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> is gracious, his mercy is everlasting; * and his truth endureth from generation to generation.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 101. <i>Misericordiam et judicium.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">MY song shall be of mercy and judgment; * unto thee, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, will I sing.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 O let me have understanding * in the way of godliness!</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 When wilt thou come unto me? * I will walk in my house with a perfect heart.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 I will take no wicked thing in hand; I hate the sins of unfaithfulness; * there shall no such cleave unto me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 A froward heart shall depart from me; * I will not know a wicked person.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 Whoso privily slandereth his neighbour, * him will I destroy.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 Whoso hath also a haughty look and a proud heart, * I will not suffer him.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Mine eyes look upon such as are faithful in the land, * that they may dwell with me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 Whoso leadeth a godly life, * he shall be my servant.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 There shall no deceitful person dwell in my house; * he that telleth lies shall not tarry in my sight.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 I shall soon destroy all the ungodly that are in the land; * that I may root out all wicked doers from the city of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>.</p>
</body>
</html>
