<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Book of Common Prayer - 1928</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/bcp.css" />
</head>

<body>
  <h3 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_2">The Twentieth Day.</h3>

  <p class="centered" id="PSM20">Morning Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 102. <i>Domine, exaudi.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">HEAR my prayer, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, * and let my crying come unto thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Hide not thy face from me in the time of my trouble; * incline thine ear unto me when I call; O hear me, and that right soon.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 For my days are consumed away like smoke, * and my bones are burnt up as it were a firebrand.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 My heart is smitten down, and withered like grass; * so that I forget to eat my bread.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 For the voice of my groaning, * my bones will scarce cleave to my flesh.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 I am become like a pelican in the wilderness, * and like an owl that is in the desert.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 I have watched, and am even as it were a sparrow, * that sitteth alone upon the housetop.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Mine enemies revile me all the day long; * and they that are mad upon me are sworn together against me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 For I have eaten ashes as it were bread, * and mingled my drink with weeping;</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 And that, because of thine indignation and wrath; * for thou hast taken me up, and cast me down.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 My days are gone like a shadow, * and I am withered like grass.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 But thou, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, shalt endure for ever, * and thy remembrance throughout all generations.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 Thou shalt arise, and have mercy upon Sion; * for it is time that thou have mercy upon her, yea, the time is come.</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 And why? thy servants think upon her stones, * and it pitieth them to see her in the dust.</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 The nations shall fear thy Name, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * and all the kings of the earth thy majesty;</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 When the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> shall build up Sion, * and when his glory shall appear;</p>

  <p class="psalm">17 When he turneth him unto the prayer of the poor destitute, * and despiseth not their desire.</p>

  <p class="psalm">18 This shall be written for those that come after, * and the people which shall be born shall praise the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>.</p>

  <p class="psalm">19 For he hath looked down from his sanctuary; * out of the heaven did the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> behold the earth;</p>

  <p class="psalm">20 That he might hear the mournings of such as are in captivity, * and deliver them that are appointed unto death;</p>

  <p class="psalm">21 That they may declare the Name of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> in Sion, * and his worship at Jerusalem;</p>

  <p class="psalm">22 When the peoples are gathered together, * and the kingdoms also, to serve the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>.</p>

  <p class="psalm">23 He brought down my strength in my journey, * and shortened my days.</p>

  <p class="psalm">24 But I said, O my God, take me not away in the midst of mine age; * as for thy years, they endure throughout all generations.</p>

  <p class="psalm">25 Thou, Lord, in the beginning hast laid the foundation of the earth, * and the heavens are the work of thy hands.</p>

  <p class="psalm">26 They shall perish, but thou shalt endure: * they all shall wax old as doth a garment;</p>

  <p class="psalm">27 And as a vesture shalt thou change them, and they shall be changed; * but thou art the same, and thy years shall not fail.</p>

  <p class="psalm">28 The children of thy servants shall continue, * and their seed shall stand fast in thy sight.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 103. <i>Benedic, anima mea.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">PRAISE the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, O my soul; * and all that is within me, praise his holy Name.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Praise the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, O my soul, * and forget not all his benefits:</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Who forgiveth all thy sin, * and healeth all thine infirmities;</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Who saveth thy life from destruction, * and crowneth thee with mercy and loving-kindness;</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Who satisfieth thy mouth with good things, * making thee young and lusty as an eagle.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> executeth righteousness and judgment * for all them that are oppressed with wrong.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 He showed his ways unto Moses, * his works unto the children of Israel.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> is full of compassion and mercy, * long-suffering, and of great goodness.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 He will not alway be chiding; * neither keepeth he his anger for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 He hath not dealt with us after our sins; * nor rewarded us according to our wickednesses.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 For look how high the heaven is in comparison of the earth; * so great is his mercy also toward them that fear him.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 Look how wide also the east is from the west; * so far hath he set our sins from us.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 Yea, like as a father pitieth his own children; * even so is the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> merciful unto them that fear him.</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 For he knoweth whereof we are made; * he remembereth that we are but dust.</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 The days of man are but as grass; * for he flourisheth as a flower of the field.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 For as soon as the wind goeth over it, it is gone; * and the place thereof shall know it no more.</p>

  <p class="psalm">17 But the merciful goodness of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> endureth for ever and ever upon them that fear him; * and his righteousness upon children’s children;</p>

  <p class="psalm">18 Even upon such as keep his covenant, * and think upon his commandments to do them.</p>

  <p class="psalm">19 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> hath prepared his seat in heaven, * and his kingdom ruleth over all.</p>

  <p class="psalm">20 O praise the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, ye angels of his, ye that excel in strength; * ye that fulfil his commandment, and hearken unto the voice of his word.</p>

  <p class="psalm">21 O praise the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, all ye his hosts; * ye servants of his that do his pleasure.</p>

  <p class="psalm">22 O speak good of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, all ye works of his, in all places of his dominion: * praise thou the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, O my soul.</p>

  <p class="centered" id="PSE20">Evening Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 104. <i>Benedic, anima mea.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">PRAISE the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, O my soul: * O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> my God, thou art become exceeding glorious; thou art clothed with majesty and honour.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Thou deckest thyself with light as it were with a garment, * and spreadest out the heavens like a curtain.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Who layeth the beams of his chambers in the waters, * and maketh the clouds his chariot, and walketh upon the wings of the wind.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 He maketh his angels winds, * and his ministers a flaming fire.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 He laid the foundations of the earth, * that it never should move at any time.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 Thou coveredst it with the deep like as with a garment; * the waters stand above the hills.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 At thy rebuke they flee; * at the voice of thy thunder they haste away.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 They go up as high as the hills, and down to the valleys beneath; * even unto the place which thou hast appointed for them.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 Thou hast set them their bounds, which they shall not pass, * neither turn again to cover the earth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 He sendeth the springs into the rivers, * which run among the hills.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 All beasts of the field drink thereof, * and the wild asses quench their thirst.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 Beside them shall the fowls of the air have their habitation, * and sing among the branches.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 He watereth the hills from above; * the earth is filled with the fruit of thy works.</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 He bringeth forth grass for the cattle, * and green herb for the service of men;</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 That he may bring food out of the earth, and wine that maketh glad the heart of man; * and oil to make him a cheerful countenance, and bread to strengthen man’s heart.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 The trees of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> also are full of sap; * even the cedars of Lebanon which he hath planted;</p>

  <p class="psalm">17 Wherein the birds make their nests; * and the fir trees are a dwelling for the stork.</p>

  <p class="psalm">18 The high hills are a refuge for the wild goats; * and so are the stony rocks for the conies.</p>

  <p class="psalm">19 He appointed the moon for certain seasons, * and the sun knoweth his going down.</p>

  <p class="psalm">20 Thou makest darkness that it may be night; * wherein all the beasts of the forest do move.</p>

  <p class="psalm">21 The lions, roaring after their prey, * do seek their meat from God.</p>

  <p class="psalm">22 The sun ariseth, and they get them away together, * and lay them down in their dens.</p>

  <p class="psalm">23 Man goeth forth to his work, and to his labour, * until the evening.</p>

  <p class="psalm">24 O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, how manifold are thy works! * in wisdom hast thou made them all; the earth is full of thy riches.</p>

  <p class="psalm">25 So is the great and wide sea also; * wherein are things creeping innumerable, both small and great beasts.</p>

  <p class="psalm">26 There go the ships, and there is that leviathan, * whom thou hast made to take his pastime therein.</p>

  <p class="psalm">27 These wait all upon thee, * that thou mayest give them meat in due season.</p>

  <p class="psalm">28 When thou givest it them, they gather it; * and when thou openest thy hand, they are filled with good.</p>

  <p class="psalm">29 When thou hidest thy face, they are troubled: * when thou takest away their breath, they die, and are turned again to their dust.</p>

  <p class="psalm">30 When thou lettest thy breath go forth, they shall be made; * and thou shalt renew the face of the earth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">31 The glorious majesty of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> shall endure for ever; * the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> shall rejoice in his works.</p>

  <p class="psalm">32 The earth shall tremble at the look of him; * if he do but touch the hills, they shall smoke.</p>

  <p class="psalm">33 I will sing unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> as long as I live; * I will praise my God while I have my being.</p>

  <p class="psalm">34 And so shall my words please him: * my joy shall be in the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>.</p>

  <p class="psalm">35 As for sinners, they shall be consumed out of the earth, * and the ungodly shall come to an end.</p>

  <p class="psalm">36 Praise thou the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, O my soul. * Praise the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>.</p>
</body>
</html>
