<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Book of Common Prayer - 1928</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/bcp.css" />
</head>

<body>
  <h3 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_2">The Twenty-first Day.</h3>

  <p class="centered" id="PSM21">Morning Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 105. <i>Confitemini Domino.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">GIVE thanks unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, and call upon his Name; * tell the people what things he hath done.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 O let your songs be of him, and praise him; * and let your talking be of all his wondrous works.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Rejoice in his holy Name; * let the heart of them rejoice that seek the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Seek the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> and his strength; * seek his face evermore.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Remember the marvellous works that he hath done; * his wonders, and the judgments of his mouth;</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 O ye seed of Abraham his servant, * ye children of Jacob his chosen.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 He is the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> our God; * his judgments are in all the world.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 He hath been alway mindful of his covenant and promise, * that he made to a thousand generations;</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 Even the covenant that he made with Abraham; * and the oath that he sware unto Isaac;</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 And appointed the same unto Jacob for a law, * and to Israel for an everlasting testament;</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 Saying, Unto thee will I give the land of Canaan, * the lot of your inheritance:</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 When there were yet but a few of them, * and they strangers in the land;</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 What time as they went from one nation to another, * from one kingdom to another people;</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 He suffered no man to do them wrong, * but reproved even kings for their sakes;</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 Touch not mine anointed, * and do my prophets no harm.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 Moreover, he called for a dearth upon the land, * and destroyed all the provision of bread.</p>

  <p class="psalm">17 But he had sent a man before them, * even Joseph, who was sold to be a bond-servant;</p>

  <p class="psalm">18 Whose feet they hurt in the stocks; * the iron entered into his soul;</p>

  <p class="psalm">19 Until the time came that his cause was known: * the word of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> tried him.</p>

  <p class="psalm">20 The king sent, and delivered him; * the prince of the people let him go free.</p>

  <p class="psalm">21 He made him lord also of his house, * and ruler of all his substance;</p>

  <p class="psalm">22 That he might inform his princes after his will, * and teach his senators wisdom.</p>

  <p class="psalm">23 Israel also came into Egypt, * and Jacob was a stranger in the land of Ham.</p>

  <p class="psalm">24 And he increased his people exceedingly, * and made them stronger than their enemies;</p>

  <p class="psalm">25 Whose heart turned so, that they hated his people, * and dealt untruly with his servants.</p>

  <p class="psalm">26 Then sent he Moses his servant, * and Aaron whom he had chosen.</p>

  <p class="psalm">27 And these showed his tokens among them, * and wonders in the land of Ham.</p>

  <p class="psalm">28 He sent darkness, and it was dark; * and they were not obedient unto his word.</p>

  <p class="psalm">29 He turned their waters into blood, * and slew their fish.</p>

  <p class="psalm">30 Their land brought forth frogs; * yea, even in their kings’ chambers.</p>

  <p class="psalm">31 He spake the word, and there came all manner of flies, * and lice in all their quarters.</p>

  <p class="psalm">32 He gave them hailstones for rain; * and flames of fire in their land.</p>

  <p class="psalm">33 He smote their vines also and fig trees; * and destroyed the trees that were in their coasts.</p>

  <p class="psalm">34 He spake the word, and the grasshoppers came, and caterpillars innumerable, * and did eat up all the grass in their land, and devoured the fruit of their ground.</p>

  <p class="psalm">35 He smote all the firstborn in their land; * even the chief of all their strength.</p>

  <p class="psalm">36 He brought them forth also with silver and gold; * there was not one feeble person among their tribes.</p>

  <p class="psalm">37 Egypt was glad at their departing; * for they were afraid of them.</p>

  <p class="psalm">38 He spread out a cloud to be a covering, * and fire to give light in the night season.</p>

  <p class="psalm">39 At their desire he brought quails; * and he filled them with the bread of heaven.</p>

  <p class="psalm">40 He opened the rock of stone, and the waters flowed out, * so that rivers ran in the dry places.</p>

  <p class="psalm">41 For why? he remembered his holy promise; * and Abraham his servant.</p>

  <p class="psalm">42 And he brought forth his people with joy, * and his chosen with gladness;</p>

  <p class="psalm">43 And gave them the lands of the heathen; * and they took the labours of the people in possession;</p>

  <p class="psalm">44 That they might keep his statutes, * and observe his laws.</p>

  <p class="centered" id="PSE21">Evening Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 106. <i>Confitemini Domino.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">O GIVE thanks unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; for he is gracious, * and his mercy endureth for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Who can express the noble acts of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, * or show forth all his praise?</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Blessed are they that alway keep judgment, * and do righteousness.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Remember me, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, according to the favour that thou bearest unto thy people; * O visit me with thy salvation;</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 That I may see the felicity of thy chosen, * and rejoice in the gladness of thy people, and give thanks with thine inheritance.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 We have sinned with our fathers; * we have done amiss, and dealt wickedly.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 Our fathers regarded not thy wonders in Egypt, neither kept they thy great goodness in remembrance; * but were disobedient at the sea, even at the Red Sea.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Nevertheless, he helped them for his Name’s sake, * that he might make his power to be known.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 He rebuked the Red Sea also, and it was dried up; * so he led them through the deep, as through a wilderness.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 And he saved them from the adversary’s hand, * and delivered them from the hand of the enemy.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 As for those that troubled them, the waters overwhelmed them; * there was not one of them left.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 Then believed they his words, * and sang praise unto him.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 But within a while they forgat his works, * and would not abide his counsel.</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 But lust came upon them in the wilderness, * and they tempted God in the desert.</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 And he gave them their desire, * and sent leanness withal into their soul.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 They angered Moses also in the tents, * and Aaron the saint of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>.</p>

  <p class="psalm">17 So the earth opened, and swallowed up Dathan, * and covered the congregation of Abiram.</p>

  <p class="psalm">18 And the fire was kindled in their company; * the flame burnt up the ungodly.</p>

  <p class="psalm">19 They made a calf in Horeb, * and worshipped the molten image.</p>

  <p class="psalm">20 Thus they turned their glory * into the similitude of a calf that eateth hay.</p>

  <p class="psalm">21 And they forgat God their Saviour, * who had done so great things in Egypt;</p>

  <p class="psalm">22 Wondrous works in the land of Ham; * and fearful things by the Red Sea.</p>

  <p class="psalm">23 So he said he would have destroyed them, had not Moses his chosen stood before him in the gap, * to turn away his wrathful indignation, lest he should destroy them.</p>

  <p class="psalm">24 Yea, they thought scorn of that pleasant land, * and gave no credence unto his word;</p>

  <p class="psalm">25 But murmured in their tents, * and hearkened not unto the voice of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>.</p>

  <p class="psalm">26 Then lift he up his hand against them, * to overthrow them in the wilderness;</p>

  <p class="psalm">27 To cast out their seed among the nations, * and to scatter them in the lands.</p>

  <p class="psalm">28 They joined themselves unto Baal-peor, * and ate the offerings of the dead.</p>

  <p class="psalm">29 Thus they provoked him to anger with their own inventions; * and the plague was great among them.</p>

  <p class="psalm">30 Then stood up Phinehas, and interposed; * and so the plague ceased.</p>

  <p class="psalm">31 And that was counted unto him for righteousness, * among all posterities for evermore.</p>

  <p class="psalm">32 They angered him also at the waters of strife, * so that he punished Moses for their sakes;</p>

  <p class="psalm">33 Because they provoked his spirit, * so that he spake unadvisedly with his lips.</p>

  <p class="psalm">34 Neither destroyed they the heathen, * as the Lord commanded them;</p>

  <p class="psalm">35 But were mingled among the heathen, * and learned their works.</p>

  <p class="psalm">36 Insomuch that they worshipped their idols, which became a snare unto them; * yea, they offered their sons and their daughters unto devils;</p>

  <p class="psalm">37 And shed innocent blood, even the blood of their sons and of their daughters, * whom they offered unto the idols of Canaan; and the land was defiled with blood.</p>

  <p class="psalm">38 Thus were they stained with their own works, * and went a whoring with their own inventions.</p>

  <p class="psalm">39 Therefore was the wrath of the Lord kindled against his people, * insomuch that he abhorred his own inheritance.</p>

  <p class="psalm">40 And he gave them over into the hand of the heathen; * and they that hated them were lords over them.</p>

  <p class="psalm">41 Their enemies oppressed them, * and had them in subjection.</p>

  <p class="psalm">42 Many a time did he deliver them; * but they rebelled against him with their own inventions, and were brought down in their wickedness.</p>

  <p class="psalm">43 Nevertheless, when he saw their adversity, * he heard their complaint.</p>

  <p class="psalm">44 He thought upon his covenant, and pitied them, according unto the multitude of his mercies; * yea, he made all those that led them away captive to pity them.</p>

  <p class="psalm">45 Deliver us, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> our God, and gather us from among the heathen; * that we may give thanks unto thy holy Name, and make our boast of thy praise.</p>

  <p class="psalm">46 Blessed be the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> God of Israel, from everlasting, and world without end; * And let all the people say, Amen.</p>
</body>
</html>
