<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Book of Common Prayer - 1928</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/bcp.css" />
</head>

<body>
  <h3 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_2">The Twenty-second Day.</h3>

  <p class="centered" id="PSM22">Morning Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">BOOK V.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 107. <i>Confitemini Domino.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">O GIVE thanks unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, for he is gracious, * and his mercy endureth for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Let them give thanks whom the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> hath redeemed, * and delivered from the hand of the enemy;</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 And gathered them out of the lands, from the east, and from the west; * from the north, and from the south.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 They went astray in the wilderness out of the way, * and found no city to dwell in.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Hungry and thirsty, * their soul fainted in them.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 So they cried unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> in their trouble, * and he delivered them from their distress.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 He led them forth by the right way, * that they might go to the city where they dwelt.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 O that men would therefore praise the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> for his goodness; * and declare the wonders that he doeth for the children of men!</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 For he satisfieth the empty soul, * and filleth the hungry soul with goodness.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 Such as sit in darkness, and in the shadow of death, * being fast bound in misery and iron;</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 Because they rebelled against the words of the Lord, * and lightly regarded the counsel of the Most Highest;</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 He also brought down their heart through heaviness: * they fell down, and there was none to help them.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 So when they cried unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> in their trouble, * he delivered them out of their distress.</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 For he brought them out of darkness, and out of the shadow of death, * and brake their bonds in sunder.</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 O that men would therefore praise the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> for his goodness; * and declare the wonders that he doeth for the children of men!</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 For he hath broken the gates of brass, * and smitten the bars of iron in sunder.</p>

  <p class="psalm">17 Foolish men are plagued for their offence, * and because of their wickedness.</p>

  <p class="psalm">18 Their soul abhorred all manner of meat, * and they were even hard at death’s door.</p>

  <p class="psalm">19 So when they cried unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> in their trouble, * he delivered them out of their distress.</p>

  <p class="psalm">20 He sent his word, and healed them; * and they were saved from their destruction.</p>

  <p class="psalm">21 O that men would therefore praise the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> for his goodness; * and declare the wonders that he doeth for the children of men!</p>

  <p class="psalm">22 That they would offer unto him the sacrifice of thanksgiving, * and tell out his works with gladness!</p>

  <p class="psalm">23 They that go down to the sea in ships, * and occupy their business in great waters;</p>

  <p class="psalm">24 These men see the works of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, * and his wonders in the deep.</p>

  <p class="psalm">25 For at his word the stormy wind ariseth, * which lifteth up the waves thereof.</p>

  <p class="psalm">26 They are carried up to the heaven, and down again to the deep; * their soul melteth away because of the trouble.</p>

  <p class="psalm">27 They reel to and fro, and stagger like a drunken man, * and are at their wit’s end.</p>

  <p class="psalm">28 So when they cry unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> in their trouble, * he delivereth them out of their distress.</p>

  <p class="psalm">29 For he maketh the storm to cease, * so that the waves thereof are still.</p>

  <p class="psalm">30 Then are they glad, because they are at rest; * and so he bringeth them unto the haven where they would be.</p>

  <p class="psalm">31 O that men would therefore praise the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> for his goodness; * and declare the wonders that he doeth for the children of men!</p>

  <p class="psalm">32 That they would exalt him also in the congregation of the people, * and praise him in the seat of the elders!</p>

  <p class="psalm">33 He turneth the floods into a wilderness, * and drieth up the water springs.</p>

  <p class="psalm">34 A fruitful land maketh he barren, * for the wickedness of them that dwell therein.</p>

  <p class="psalm">35 Again, he maketh the wilderness a standing water, * and water springs of a dry ground.</p>

  <p class="psalm">36 And there he setteth the hungry, * that they may build them a city to dwell in;</p>

  <p class="psalm">37 That they may sow their land, and plant vineyards, * to yield them fruits of increase.</p>

  <p class="psalm">38 He blesseth them, so that they multiply exceedingly; * and suffereth not their cattle to decrease.</p>

  <p class="psalm">39 And again, when they are minished and brought low * through oppression, through any plague or trouble;</p>

  <p class="psalm">40 Though he suffer them to be evil entreated through tyrants, * and let them wander out of the way in the wilderness;</p>

  <p class="psalm">41 Yet helpeth he the poor out of misery, * and maketh him households like a flock of sheep.</p>

  <p class="psalm">42 The righteous will consider this, and rejoice; * and the mouth of all wickedness shall be stopped.</p>

  <p class="psalm">43 Whoso is wise, will ponder these things; * and they shall understand the loving-kindness of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>.</p>

  <p class="centered" id="PSE22">Evening Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 108. <i>Paratum cor meum.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">O GOD, my heart is ready, my heart is ready; * I will sing, and give praise with the best member that I have.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Awake, thou lute and harp; * I myself will awake right early.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 I will give thanks unto thee, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, among the peoples; * I will sing praises unto thee among the nations.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 For thy mercy is greater than the heavens, * and thy truth reacheth unto the clouds.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Set up thyself, O God, above the heavens, * and thy glory above all the earth;</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 That thy beloved may be delivered: * let thy right hand save them, and hear thou me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 God hath spoken in his holiness; * I will rejoice therefore, and divide Shechem, and mete out the valley of Succoth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Gilead is mine, and Manasseh is mine; * Ephraim also is the strength of my head; Judah is my lawgiver;</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 Moab is my wash-pot; over Edom will I cast out my shoe; * upon Philistia will I triumph.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 Who will lead me into the strong city? * and who will bring me into Edom?</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 Hast not thou forsaken us, O God? * and wilt not thou, O God, go forth with our hosts?</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 O help us against the enemy: * for vain is the help of man.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 Through God we shall do great acts; * and it is he that shall tread down our enemies.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 109. <i>Deus, laudem.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">HOLD not thy tongue, O God of my praise; * for the mouth of the ungodly, yea, the mouth of the deceitful is opened upon me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 And they have spoken against me with false tongues; * they compassed me about also with words of hatred, and fought against me without a cause.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 For the love that I had unto them, lo, they take now my contrary part; * but I give myself unto prayer.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Thus have they rewarded me evil for good, * and hatred for my good will.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Set thou an ungodly man to be ruler over him, * and let an adversary stand at his right hand.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 When sentence is given upon him, let him be condemned; * and let his prayer be turned into sin.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 Let his days be few; * and let another take his office.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Let his children be fatherless, * and his wife a widow.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 Let his children be vagabonds, and beg their bread; * let them seek it also out of desolate places.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 Let the extortioner consume all that he hath; * and let the stranger spoil his labour.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 Let there be no man to pity him, * nor to have compassion upon his fatherless children.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 Let his posterity be destroyed; * and in the next generation let his name be clean put out.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 Let the wickedness of his fathers be had in remembrance in the sight of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * and let not the sin of his mother be done away.</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 Let them alway be before the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, * that he may root out the memorial of them from off the earth;</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 And that, because his mind was not to do good; * but persecuted the poor helpless man, that he might slay him that was vexed at the heart.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 His delight was in cursing, and it shall happen unto him; * he loved not blessing, therefore shall it be far from him.</p>

  <p class="psalm">17 He clothed himself with cursing like as with a raiment, * and it shall come into his bowels like water, and like oil into his bones.</p>

  <p class="psalm">18 Let it be unto him as the cloak that he hath upon him, * and as the girdle that he is alway girded withal.</p>

  <p class="psalm">19 Let it thus happen from the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> unto mine enemies, * and to those that speak evil against my soul.</p>

  <p class="psalm">20 But deal thou with me, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> God, according unto thy Name; * for sweet is thy mercy.</p>

  <p class="psalm">21 O deliver me, for I am helpless and poor, * and my heart is wounded within me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">22 I go hence like the shadow that departeth, * and am driven away as the grasshopper.</p>

  <p class="psalm">23 My knees are weak through fasting; * my flesh is dried up for want of fatness.</p>

  <p class="psalm">24 I am become also a reproach unto them: * they that look upon me shake their heads.</p>

  <p class="psalm">25 Help me, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> my God; * O save me according to thy mercy;</p>

  <p class="psalm">26 And they shall know how that this is thy hand, * and that thou, <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, hast done it.</p>

  <p class="psalm">27 Though they curse, yet bless thou; * and let them be confounded that rise up against me; but let thy servant rejoice.</p>

  <p class="psalm">28 Let mine adversaries be clothed with shame; * and let them cover themselves with their own confusion, as with a cloak.</p>

  <p class="psalm">29 As for me, I will give great thanks unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> with my mouth, * and praise him among the multitude;</p>

  <p class="psalm">30 For he shall stand at the right hand of the poor, * to save his soul from unrighteous judges.</p>
</body>
</html>
