<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Book of Common Prayer - 1928</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/bcp.css" />
</head>

<body>
  <h3 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_2">The Twenty-third Day.</h3>

  <p class="centered" id="PSM23">Morning Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 110. <i>Dixit Dominus.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">THE <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> said unto my Lord, * Sit thou on my right hand, until I make thine enemies thy footstool.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> shall send the rod of thy power out of Sion: * be thou ruler, even in the midst among thine enemies.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 In the day of thy power shall thy people offer themselves willingly with an holy worship: * thy young men come to thee as dew from the womb of the morning.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> sware, and will not repent, * Thou art a Priest for ever after the order of Melchizedek.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 The Lord upon thy right hand * shall wound even kings in the day of his wrath.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 He shall judge among the heathen; * he shall fill the places with the dead bodies, and smite in sunder the heads over divers countries.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 He shall drink of the brook in the way; * therefore shall he lift up his head.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 111. <i>Confitebor tibi.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">I WILL give thanks unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> with my whole heart, * secretly among the faithful, and in the congregation.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 The works of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> are great, * sought out of all them that have pleasure therein.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 His work is worthy to be praised and had in honour, * and his righteousness endureth for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 The merciful and gracious <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> hath so done his marvellous works, * that they ought to be had in remembrance.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 He hath given meat unto them that fear him; * he shall ever be mindful of his covenant.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 He hath showed his people the power of his works, * that he may give them the heritage of the heathen.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 The works of his hands are verity and judgment; * all his commandments are true.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 They stand fast for ever and ever, * and are done in truth and equity.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 He sent redemption unto his people; * he hath commanded his covenant for ever; holy and reverend is his Name.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 The fear of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> is the beginning of wisdom; * a good understanding have all they that do thereafter; his praise endureth for ever.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 112. <i>Beatus vir.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">BLESSED is the man that feareth the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * he hath great delight in his commandments.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 His seed shall be mighty upon earth; * the generation of the faithful shall be blessed.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Riches and plenteousness shall be in his house; * and his righteousness endureth for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Unto the godly there ariseth up light in the darkness; * he is merciful, loving, and righteous.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 A good man is merciful, and lendeth; * and will guide his words with discretion.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 For he shall never be moved: * and the righteous shall be had in everlasting remembrance.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 He will not be afraid of any evil tidings; * for his heart standeth fast, and believeth in the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 His heart is stablished, and will not shrink, * until he see his desire upon his enemies.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 He hath dispersed abroad, and given to the poor. * and his righteousness remaineth for ever; his horn shall be exalted with honour.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 The ungodly shall see it, and it shall grieve him; * he shall gnash with his teeth, and consume away; the desire of the ungodly shall perish.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 113. <i>Laudate, pueri.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">PRAISE the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, ye servants; * O praise the Name of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Blessed be the Name of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> * from this time forth for evermore.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord’s</span> Name is praised * from the rising up of the sun unto the going down of the same.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> is high above all nations, * and his glory above the heavens.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Who is like unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> our God, that hath his dwelling so high, * and yet humbleth himself to behold the things that are in heaven and earth!</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 He taketh up the simple out of the dust, * and lifteth the poor out of the mire;</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 That he may set him with the princes, * even with the princes of his people.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 He maketh the barren woman to keep house, * and to be a joyful mother of children.</p>

  <p class="centered" id="PSE23">Evening Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 114. <i>In exitu Israel.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">WHEN Israel came out of Egypt, * and the house of Jacob from among the strange people,</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Judah was his sanctuary, * and Israel his dominion.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 The sea saw that, and fled; * Jordan was driven back.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 The mountains skipped like rams, * and the little hills like young sheep.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 What aileth thee, O thou sea, that thou fleddest? * and thou Jordan, that thou wast driven back?</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 Ye mountains, that ye skipped like rams? * and ye little hills, like young sheep?</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 Tremble, thou earth, at the presence of the Lord: * at the presence of the God of Jacob;</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Who turned the hard rock into a standing water, * and the flintstone into a springing well.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 115. <i>Non nobis, Domine.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">NOT unto us, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, not unto us, but unto thy Name give the praise; * for thy loving mercy, and for thy truth’s sake.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Wherefore shall the heathen say, * Where is now their God?</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 As for our God, he is in heaven: * he hath done whatsoever pleased him.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Their idols are silver and gold, * even the work of men’s hands.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 They have mouths, and speak not; * eyes have they, and see not.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 They have ears, and hear not; * noses have they, and smell not.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 They have hands, and handle not; feet have they, and walk not; * neither speak they through their throat.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 They that make them are like unto them; * and so are all such as put their trust in them.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 But thou, house of Israel, trust thou in the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * he is their helper and defender.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 Ye house of Aaron, put your trust in the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * he is their helper and defender.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 Ye that fear the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, put your trust in the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * he is their helper and defender.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> hath been mindful of us, and he shall bless us; * even he shall bless the house of Israel, he shall bless the house of Aaron.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 He shall bless them that fear the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, * both small and great.</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> shall increase you more and more, * you and your children.</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 Ye are the blessed of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, * who made heaven and earth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 All the whole heavens are the <span class="smallcaps">Lord’s</span>; * the earth hath he given to the children of men.</p>

  <p class="psalm">17 The dead praise not thee, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, * neither all they that go down into silence.</p>

  <p class="psalm">18 But we will praise the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, * from this time forth for evermore. Praise the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>.</p>
</body>
</html>
