<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Book of Common Prayer - 1928</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/bcp.css" />
</head>

<body>
  <h3 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_2">The Twenty-fourth Day.</h3>

  <p class="centered" id="PSM24">Morning Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 116. <i>Dilexi, quoniam.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">MY delight is in the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * because he hath heard the voice of my prayer;</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Because he hath inclined his ear unto me; * therefore will I call upon him as long as I live.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 The snares of death compassed me round about, * and the pains of hell got hold upon me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 I found trouble and heaviness; then called I upon the Name of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, I beseech thee, deliver my soul.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Gracious is the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, and righteous; * yea, our God is merciful.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> preserveth the simple: * I was in misery, and he helped me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 Turn again then unto thy rest, O my soul; * for the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> hath rewarded thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 And why? thou hast delivered my soul from death, * mine eyes from tears, and my feet from falling.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 I will walk before the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> * in the land of the living.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 I believed, and therefore will I speak; but I was sore troubled: * I said in my haste, All men are liars.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 What reward shall I give unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> * for all the benefits that he hath done unto me?</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 I will receive the cup of salvation, * and call upon the Name of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 I will pay my vows now in the presence of all his people: * right dear in the sight of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> is the death of his saints.</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 Behold, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, how that I am thy servant; * I am thy servant, and the son of thine handmaid; thou hast broken my bonds in sunder.</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 I will offer to thee the sacrifice of thanksgiving, * and will call upon the Name of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 I will pay my vows unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, in the sight of all his people, * in the courts of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord’s</span> house; even in the midst of thee, O Jerusalem. Praise the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 117. <i>Laudate Dominum.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">O PRAISE the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, all ye nations; * praise him, all ye peoples.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 For his merciful kindness is ever more and more toward us; * and the truth of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> endureth for ever. Praise the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 118. <i>Confitemini Domino.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">O GIVE thanks unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, for he is gracious; * because his mercy endureth for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Let Israel now confess that he is gracious, * and that his mercy endureth for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Let the house of Aaron now confess, * that his mercy endureth for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Yea, let them now that fear the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> confess, * that his mercy endureth for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 I called upon the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> in trouble; * and the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> heard me at large.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> is on my side; * I will not fear what man doeth unto me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> taketh my part with them that help me; * therefore shall I see my desire upon mine enemies.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 It is better to trust in the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, * than to put any confidence in man.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 It is better to trust in the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, * than to put any confidence in princes.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 All nations compassed me round about; * but in the Name of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> will I destroy them.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 They kept me in on every side, they kept me in, I say, on every side; * but in the Name of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> will I destroy them.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 They came about me like bees, and are extinct even as the fire among the thorns; * for in the Name of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> I will destroy them.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 Thou hast thrust sore at me, that I might fall; * but the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> was my help.</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> is my strength, and my song; * and is become my salvation.</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 The voice of joy and health is in the dwellings of the righteous; * the right hand of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> bringeth mighty things to pass.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 The right hand of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> hath the pre-eminence; * the right hand of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> bringeth mighty things to pass.</p>

  <p class="psalm">17 I shall not die, but live, * and declare the works of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>.</p>

  <p class="psalm">18 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> hath chastened and corrected me; * but he hath not given me over unto death.</p>

  <p class="psalm">19 Open me the gates of righteousness, * that I may go into them, and give thanks unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>.</p>

  <p class="psalm">20 This is the gate of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, * the righteous shall enter into it.</p>

  <p class="psalm">21 I will thank thee; for thou hast heard me, * and art become my salvation.</p>

  <p class="psalm">22 The same stone which the builders refused, * is become the head-stone in the corner.</p>

  <p class="psalm">23 This is the <span class="smallcaps">Lord’s</span> doing, * and it is marvellous in our eyes.</p>

  <p class="psalm">24 This is the day which the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> hath made; * we will rejoice and be glad in it.</p>

  <p class="psalm">25 Help me now, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>: * O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, send us now prosperity.</p>

  <p class="psalm">26 Blessed be he that cometh in the Name of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>: * we have wished you good luck, we that are of the house of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>.</p>

  <p class="psalm">27 God is the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, who hath showed us light: * bind the sacrifice with cords, yea, even unto the horns of the altar.</p>

  <p class="psalm">28 Thou art my God, and I will thank thee; * thou art my God, and I will praise thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">29 O give thanks unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; for he is gracious, * and his mercy endureth for ever.</p>

  <p class="centered" id="PSE24">Evening Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 119. I. <i>Beati immaculati.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">BLESSED are those that are undefiled in the way, and walk in the law of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Blessed are they that keep his testimonies, * and seek him with their whole heart;</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Even they who do no wickedness, * and walk in his ways.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Thou hast charged * that we shall diligently keep thy commandments.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 O that my ways were made so direct, * that I might keep thy statutes!</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 So shall I not be confounded, * while I have respect unto all thy commandments.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 I will thank thee with an unfeigned heart, * when I shall have learned the judgments of thy righteousness.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 I will keep thy statutes; * O forsake me not utterly.</p>

  <p class="centered">II. <i>In quo corrigit?</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">WHEREWITHAL shall a young man cleanse his way? * even by ruling himself after thy word.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 With my whole heart have I sought thee; * O let me not go wrong out of thy commandments.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 Thy word have I hid within my heart, * that I should not sin against thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 Blessed art thou, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * O teach me thy statutes.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 With my lips have I been telling * of all the judgments of thy mouth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 I have had as great delight in the way of thy testimonies, * as in all manner of riches.</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 I will talk of thy commandments, * and have respect unto thy ways.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 My delight shall be in thy statutes, * and I will not forget thy word.</p>

  <p class="centered">III. <i>Retribue servo tuo.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">O DO well unto thy servant; * that I may live, and keep thy word.</p>

  <p class="psalm">18 Open thou mine eyes; * that I may see the wondrous things of thy law.</p>

  <p class="psalm">19 I am a stranger upon earth; * O hide not thy commandments from me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">20 My soul breaketh out for the very fervent desire * that it hath alway unto thy judgments.</p>

  <p class="psalm">21 Thou hast rebuked the proud; * and cursed are they that do err from thy commandments.</p>

  <p class="psalm">22 O turn from me shame and rebuke; * for I have kept thy testimonies.</p>

  <p class="psalm">23 Princes also did sit and speak against me; * but thy servant is occupied in thy statutes.</p>

  <p class="psalm">24 For thy testimonies are my delight, * and my counsellors.</p>

  <p class="centered">IV. <i>Adhaesit pavimento.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">MY soul cleaveth to the dust; * O quicken thou me, according to thy word.</p>

  <p class="psalm">26 I have acknowledged my ways, and thou heardest me: * O teach me thy statutes.</p>

  <p class="psalm">27 Make me to understand the way of thy commandments; * and so shall I talk of thy wondrous works.</p>

  <p class="psalm">28 My soul melteth away for very heaviness; * comfort thou me according unto thy word.</p>

  <p class="psalm">29 Take from me the way of lying, * and cause thou me to make much of thy law.</p>

  <p class="psalm">30 I have chosen the way of truth, * and thy judgments have I laid before me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">31 I have stuck unto thy testimonies; * O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, confound me not.</p>

  <p class="psalm">32 I will run the way of thy commandments, * when thou hast set my heart at liberty.</p>
</body>
</html>
