<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Book of Common Prayer - 1928</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/bcp.css" />
</head>

<body>
  <h3 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_2">The Twenty-fifth Day.</h3>

  <p class="centered" id="PSM25">Morning Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">V. <i>Legem pone.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">TEACH me, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, the way of thy statutes, * and I shall keep it unto the end.</p>

  <p class="psalm">34 Give me understanding, and I shall keep thy law; * yea, I shall keep it with my whole heart.</p>

  <p class="psalm">35 Make me to go in the path of thy commandments; * for therein is my desire.</p>

  <p class="psalm">36 Incline my heart unto thy testimonies, * and not to covetousness.</p>

  <p class="psalm">37 O turn away mine eyes, lest they behold vanity; * and quicken thou me in thy way.</p>

  <p class="psalm">38 O stablish thy word in thy servant, * that I may fear thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">39 Take away the rebuke that I am afraid of; * for thy judgments are good.</p>

  <p class="psalm">40 Behold, my delight is in thy commandments; * O quicken me in thy righteousness.</p>

  <p class="centered">VI. <i>Et veniat super me.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">LET thy loving mercy come also unto me, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, * even thy salvation, according unto thy word.</p>

  <p class="psalm">42 So shall I make answer unto my blasphemers; * for my trust is in thy word.</p>

  <p class="psalm">43 O take not the word of thy truth utterly out of my mouth; * for my hope is in thy judgments.</p>

  <p class="psalm">44 So shall I alway keep thy law; * yea, for ever and ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">45 And I will walk at liberty; * for I seek thy commandments.</p>

  <p class="psalm">46 I will speak of thy testimonies also, even before kings, * and will not be ashamed.</p>

  <p class="psalm">47 And my delight shall be in thy commandments, * which I have loved.</p>

  <p class="psalm">48 My hands also will I lift up unto thy commandments, which I have loved; * and my study shall be in thy statutes.</p>

  <p class="centered">VII. <i>Memor esto verbi tui.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">O THINK upon thy servant, as concerning thy word, * wherein thou hast caused me to put my trust.</p>

  <p class="psalm">50 The same is my comfort in my trouble; * for thy word hath quickened me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">51 The proud have had me exceedingly in derision; * yet have I not shrinked from thy law.</p>

  <p class="psalm">52 For I remembered thine everlasting judgments, O Lord, * and received comfort.</p>

  <p class="psalm">53 I am horribly afraid, * for the ungodly that forsake thy law.</p>

  <p class="psalm">54 Thy statutes have been my songs, * in the house of my pilgrimage.</p>

  <p class="psalm">55 I have thought upon thy Name, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, in the night season, * and have kept thy law.</p>

  <p class="psalm">56 This I had, * because I kept thy commandments.</p>

  <p class="centered">VIII. <i>Portio mea, Domine.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">THOU art my portion, O Lord; * I have promised to keep thy law.</p>

  <p class="psalm">58 I made my humble petition in thy presence with my whole heart; * O be merciful unto me, according to thy word.</p>

  <p class="psalm">59 I called mine own ways to remembrance, * and turned my feet unto thy testimonies.</p>

  <p class="psalm">60 I made haste, and prolonged not the time, * to keep thy commandments.</p>

  <p class="psalm">61 The snares of the ungodly have compassed me about; * but I have not forgotten thy law.</p>

  <p class="psalm">62 At midnight I will rise to give thanks unto thee, * because of thy righteous judgments.</p>

  <p class="psalm">63 I am a companion of all them that fear thee, * and keep thy commandments.</p>

  <p class="psalm">64 The earth, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, is full of thy mercy: * O teach me thy statutes.</p>

  <p class="centered">IX. <i>Bonitatem fecisti.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">O LORD, thou hast dealt graciously with thy servant, * according unto thy word.</p>

  <p class="psalm">66 O teach me true understanding and knowledge; * for I have believed thy commandments.</p>

  <p class="psalm">67 Before I was troubled, I went wrong; * but now have I kept thy word.</p>

  <p class="psalm">68 Thou art good and gracious; * O teach me thy statutes.</p>

  <p class="psalm">69 The proud have imagined a lie against me; * but I will keep thy commandments with my whole heart.</p>

  <p class="psalm">70 Their heart is as fat as brawn; * but my delight hath been in thy law.</p>

  <p class="psalm">71 It is good for me that I have been in trouble; * that I may learn thy statutes.</p>

  <p class="psalm">72 The law of thy mouth is dearer unto me * than thousands of gold and silver.</p>

  <p class="centered" id="PSE25">Evening Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">X. <i>Manus tuae fecerunt me.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">THY hands have made me and fashioned me: * O give me understanding, that I may learn thy commandments.</p>

  <p class="psalm">74 They that fear thee will be glad when they see me; * because I have put my trust in thy word.</p>

  <p class="psalm">75 I know, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, that thy judgments are right, * and that thou of very faithfulness hast caused me to be troubled.</p>

  <p class="psalm">76 O let thy merciful kindness be my comfort, * according to thy word unto thy servant.</p>

  <p class="psalm">77 O let thy loving mercies come unto me, that I may live; * for thy law is my delight.</p>

  <p class="psalm">78 Let the proud be confounded, for they go wickedly about to destroy me; * but I will be occupied in thy commandments.</p>

  <p class="psalm">79 Let such as fear thee, and have known thy testimonies, * be turned unto me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">80 O let my heart be sound in thy statutes, * that I be not ashamed.</p>

  <p class="centered">XI. <i>Defecit anima mea.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">MY soul hath longed for thy salvation, * and I have a good hope because of thy word.</p>

  <p class="psalm">82 Mine eyes long sore for thy word; * saying, O when wilt thou comfort me?</p>

  <p class="psalm">83 For I am become like a bottle in the smoke; * yet do I not forget thy statutes.</p>

  <p class="psalm">84 How many are the days of thy servant? * when wilt thou be avenged of them that persecute me?</p>

  <p class="psalm">85 The proud have digged pits for me, * which are not after thy law.</p>

  <p class="psalm">86 All thy commandments are true: * they persecute me falsely; O be thou my help.</p>

  <p class="psalm">87 They had almost made an end of me upon earth; * but I forsook not thy commandments.</p>

  <p class="psalm">88 O quicken me after thy loving-kindness; * and so shall I keep the testimonies of thy mouth.</p>

  <p class="centered">XII. <i>In aeternum, Domine.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">O LORD, thy word * endureth for ever in heaven.</p>

  <p class="psalm">90 Thy truth also remaineth from one generation to another; * thou hast laid the foundation of the earth, and it abideth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">91 They continue this day according to thine ordinance; * for all things serve thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">92 If my delight had not been in thy law, * I should have perished in my trouble.</p>

  <p class="psalm">93 I will never forget thy commandments; * for with them thou hast quickened me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">94 I am thine: O save me, * for I have sought thy commandments.</p>

  <p class="psalm">95 The ungodly laid wait for me, to destroy me; * but I will consider thy testimonies.</p>

  <p class="psalm">96 I see that all things come to an end; * but thy commandment is exceeding broad.</p>

  <p class="centered">XIII. <i>Quomodo dilexi!</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">LORD, what love have I unto thy law! * all the day long is my study in it.</p>

  <p class="psalm">98 Thou, through thy commandments, hast made me wiser than mine enemies; * for they are ever with me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">99 I have more understanding than my teachers; * for thy testimonies are my study.</p>

  <p class="psalm">100 I am wiser than the aged; * because I keep thy commandments.</p>

  <p class="psalm">101 I have refrained my feet from every evil way, * that I may keep thy word.</p>

  <p class="psalm">102 I have not shrunk from thy judgments; * for thou teachest me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">103 O how sweet are thy words unto my throat; * yea, sweeter than honey unto my mouth!</p>

  <p class="psalm">104 Through thy commandments I get understanding: * therefore I hate all evil ways.</p>
</body>
</html>
