<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Book of Common Prayer - 1928</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/bcp.css" />
</head>

<body>
  <h3 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_2">The Twenty-sixth Day.</h3>

  <p class="centered" id="PSM26">Morning Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">XIV. <i>Lucerna pedibus meis.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">THY word is a lantern unto my feet, * and a light unto my paths.</p>

  <p class="psalm">106 I have sworn, and am stedfastly purposed, * to keep thy righteous judgments.</p>

  <p class="psalm">107 I am troubled above measure: * quicken me, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, according to thy word.</p>

  <p class="psalm">108 Let the free-will offerings of my mouth please thee, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * and teach me thy judgments.</p>

  <p class="psalm">109 My soul is alway in my hand; * yet do I not forget thy law.</p>

  <p class="psalm">110 The ungodly have laid a snare for me; * but yet I swerved not from thy commandments.</p>

  <p class="psalm">111 Thy testimonies have I claimed as mine heritage for ever; * and why? they are the very joy of my heart.</p>

  <p class="psalm">112 I have applied my heart to fulfil thy statutes alway, * even unto the end.</p>

  <p class="centered">XV. <i>Iniquos odio habui.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">I HATE them that imagine evil things; * but thy law do I love.</p>

  <p class="psalm">114 Thou art my defence and shield; * and my trust is in thy word.</p>

  <p class="psalm">115 Away from me, ye wicked; * I will keep the commandments of my God.</p>

  <p class="psalm">116 O stablish me according to thy word, that I may live; * and let me not be disappointed of my hope.</p>

  <p class="psalm">117 Hold thou me up, and I shall be safe; * yea, my delight shall be ever in thy statutes.</p>

  <p class="psalm">118 Thou hast trodden down all them that depart from thy statutes; * for they imagine but deceit.</p>

  <p class="psalm">119 Thou puttest away all the ungodly of the earth like dross; * therefore I love thy testimonies.</p>

  <p class="psalm">120 My flesh trembleth for fear of thee; * and I am afraid of thy judgments.</p>

  <p class="centered">XVI. <i>Feci judicium.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">I DEAL with the thing that is lawful and right; * O give me not over unto mine oppressors.</p>

  <p class="psalm">122 Make thou thy servant to delight in that which is good, * that the proud do me no wrong.</p>

  <p class="psalm">123 Mine eyes are wasted away with looking for thy health, * and for the word of thy righteousness.</p>

  <p class="psalm">124 O deal with thy servant according unto thy loving mercy, * and teach me thy statutes.</p>

  <p class="psalm">125 I am thy servant; O grant me understanding, * that I may know thy testimonies.</p>

  <p class="psalm">126 It is time for thee, <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, to lay to thine hand; * for they have destroyed thy law.</p>

  <p class="psalm">127 For I love thy commandments * above gold and precious stones.</p>

  <p class="psalm">128 Therefore hold I straight all thy commandments; * and all false ways I utterly abhor.</p>

  <p class="centered">XVII. <i>Mirabilia.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">THY testimonies are wonderful; * therefore doth my soul keep them.</p>

  <p class="psalm">130 When thy word goeth forth, * it giveth light and understanding unto the simple.</p>

  <p class="psalm">131 I opened my mouth, and drew in my breath; * for my delight was in thy commandments.</p>

  <p class="psalm">132 O look thou upon me, and be merciful unto me, * as thou usest to do unto those that love thy Name.</p>

  <p class="psalm">133 Order my steps in thy word; * and so shall no wickedness have dominion over me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">134 O deliver me from the wrongful dealings of men; * and so shall I keep thy commandments.</p>

  <p class="psalm">135 Show the light of thy countenance upon thy servant, * and teach me thy statutes.</p>

  <p class="psalm">136 Mine eyes gush out with water, * because men keep not thy law.</p>

  <p class="centered">XVIII. <i>Justus es, Domine.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">RIGHTEOUS art thou, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * and true are thy judgments.</p>

  <p class="psalm">138 The testimonies that thou hast commanded * are exceeding righteous and true.</p>

  <p class="psalm">139 My zeal hath even consumed me; * because mine enemies have forgotten thy words.</p>

  <p class="psalm">140 Thy word is tried to the uttermost, * and thy servant loveth it.</p>

  <p class="psalm">141 I am small and of no reputation; * yet do I not forget thy commandments.</p>

  <p class="psalm">142 Thy righteousness is an everlasting righteousness, * and thy law is the truth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">143 Trouble and heaviness have taken hold upon me; * yet is my delight in thy commandments.</p>

  <p class="psalm">144 The righteousness of thy testimonies is everlasting: * O grant me understanding, and I shall live.</p>

  <p class="centered" id="PSE26">Evening Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">XIX. <i>Clamavi in toto corde meo.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">I CALL with my whole heart; * hear me, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; I will keep thy statutes.</p>

  <p class="psalm">146 Yea, even unto thee do I call; * help me, and I shall keep thy testimonies.</p>

  <p class="psalm">147 Early in the morning do I cry unto thee; * for in thy word is my trust.</p>

  <p class="psalm">148 Mine eyes prevent the night watches; * that I might be occupied in thy word.</p>

  <p class="psalm">149 Hear my voice, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, according unto thy loving-kindness; * quicken me, according to thy judgments.</p>

  <p class="psalm">150 They draw nigh that of malice persecute me, * and are far from thy law.</p>

  <p class="psalm">151 Be thou nigh at hand, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * for all thy commandments are true.</p>

  <p class="psalm">152 As concerning thy testimonies, I have known long since, * that thou hast grounded them for ever.</p>

  <p class="centered">XX. <i>Vide humilitatem.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">O CONSIDER mine adversity, and deliver me, * for I do not forget thy law.</p>

  <p class="psalm">154 Avenge thou my cause, and deliver me; * quicken me according to thy word.</p>

  <p class="psalm">155 Health is far from the ungodly; * for they regard not thy statutes.</p>

  <p class="psalm">156 Great is thy mercy, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * quicken me, as thou art wont.</p>

  <p class="psalm">157 Many there are that trouble me, and persecute me; * yet do I not swerve from thy testimonies.</p>

  <p class="psalm">158 It grieveth me when I see the transgressors; * because they keep not thy law.</p>

  <p class="psalm">159 Consider, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, how I love thy commandments; * O quicken me, according to thy loving-kindness.</p>

  <p class="psalm">160 Thy word is true from everlasting; * all the judgments of thy righteousness endure for evermore.</p>

  <p class="centered">XXI. <i>Principes persecuti sunt.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">PRINCES have persecuted me without a cause; * but my heart standeth in awe of thy word.</p>

  <p class="psalm">162 I am as glad of thy word, * as one that findeth great spoils.</p>

  <p class="psalm">163 As for lies, I hate and abhor them; * but thy law do I love.</p>

  <p class="psalm">164 Seven times a day do I praise thee; * because of thy righteous judgments.</p>

  <p class="psalm">165 Great is the peace that they have who love thy law; * and they have none occasion of stumbling.</p>

  <p class="psalm">166 Lord, I have looked for thy saving health, * and done after thy commandments.</p>

  <p class="psalm">167 My soul hath kept thy testimonies, * and loved them exceedingly.</p>

  <p class="psalm">168 I have kept thy commandments and testimonies; * for all my ways are before thee.</p>

  <p class="centered">XXII. <i>Appropinquet deprecatio.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">LET my complaint come before thee, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * give me understanding according to thy word.</p>

  <p class="psalm">170 Let my supplication come before thee; * deliver me according to thy word.</p>

  <p class="psalm">171 My lips shall speak of thy praise, * when thou hast taught me thy statutes.</p>

  <p class="psalm">172 Yea, my tongue shall sing of thy word; * for all thy commandments are righteous.</p>

  <p class="psalm">173 Let thine hand help me; * for I have chosen thy commandments.</p>

  <p class="psalm">174 I have longed for thy saving health, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * and in thy law is my delight.</p>

  <p class="psalm">175 O let my soul live, and it shall praise thee; * and thy judgments shall help me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">176 I have gone astray like a sheep that is lost; * O seek thy servant, for I do not forget thy commandments.</p>
</body>
</html>
