<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Book of Common Prayer - 1928</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/bcp.css" />
</head>

<body>
  <h3 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_2">The Twenty-seventh Day.</h3>

  <p class="centered" id="PSM27">Morning Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 120. <i>Ad Dominum.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">WHEN I was in trouble, I called upon the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, * and he heard me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Deliver my soul, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, from lying lips, * and from a deceitful tongue.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 What reward shall be given or done unto thee, thou false tongue? * even mighty and sharp arrows, with hot burning coals.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Woe is me, that I am constrained to dwell with Meshech, * and to have my habitation among the tents of Kedar!</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 My soul hath long dwelt among them * that are enemies unto peace.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 I labour for peace; but when I speak unto them thereof, * they make them ready to battle.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 121. <i>Levavi oculos.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">I WILL lift up mine eyes unto the hills; * from whence cometh my help?</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 My help cometh even from the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, * who hath made heaven and earth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 He will not suffer thy foot to be moved; * and he that keepeth thee will not sleep.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Behold, he that keepeth Israel * shall neither slumber nor sleep.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> himself is thy keeper; * the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> is thy defence upon thy right hand;</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 So that the sun shall not burn thee by day, * neither the moon by night.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> shall preserve thee from all evil; * yea, it is even he that shall keep thy soul.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> shall preserve thy going out, and thy coming in, * from this time forth for evermore.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 122. <i>Laetatus sum.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">I WAS glad when they said unto me, * We will go into the house of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Our feet shall stand in thy gates, * O Jerusalem.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Jerusalem is built as a city * that is at unity in itself.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 For thither the tribes go up, even the tribes of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, * to testify unto Israel, to give thanks unto the Name of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 For there is the seat of judgment, * even the seat of the house of David.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 O pray for the peace of Jerusalem; * they shall prosper that love thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 Peace be within thy walls, * and plenteousness within thy palaces.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 For my brethren and companions’ sakes, * I will wish thee prosperity.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 Yea, because of the house of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> our God, * I will seek to do thee good.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 123. <i>Ad te levavi oculos meos.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">UNTO thee lift I up mine eyes, * O thou that dwellest in the heavens.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Behold, even as the eyes of servants look unto the hand of their masters, and as the eyes of a maiden unto the hand of her mistress, * even so our eyes wait upon the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> our God, until he have mercy upon us.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Have mercy upon us, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, have mercy upon us; * for we are utterly despised.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Our soul is filled with the scornful reproof of the wealthy, * and with the despitefulness of the proud.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 124. <i>Nisi quia Dominus.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">IF the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> himself had not been on our side, now may Israel say; * if the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> himself had not been on our side, when men rose up against us;</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 They had swallowed us up alive; * when they were so wrathfully displeased at us.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Yea, the waters had drowned us, * and the stream had gone over our soul.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 The deep waters of the proud * had gone even over our soul.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 But praised be the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, * who hath not given us over for a prey unto their teeth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 Our soul is escaped even as a bird out of the snare of the fowler; * the snare is broken, and we are delivered.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 Our help standeth in the Name of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, * who hath made heaven and earth.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 125. <i>Qui confidunt.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">THEY that put their trust in the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> shall be even as the mount Sion, * which may not be removed, but standeth fast for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 The hills stand about Jerusalem; * even so standeth the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> round about his people, from this time forth for evermore.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 For the sceptre of the ungodly shall not abide upon the lot of the righteous; * lest the righteous put their hand unto wickedness.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Do well, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, * unto those that are good and true of heart.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 As for such as turn back unto their own wickedness, * the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> shall lead them forth with the evil doers; but peace shall be upon Israel.</p>

  <p class="centered" id="PSE27">Evening Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 126. <i>In convertendo.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">WHEN the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> turned again the captivity of Sion, * then were we like unto them that dream.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Then was our mouth filled with laughter, * and our tongue with joy.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Then said they among the heathen, * The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> hath done great things for them.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Yea, the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> hath done great things for us already; * whereof we rejoice.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Turn our captivity, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, * as the rivers in the south.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 They that sow in tears * shall reap in joy.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 He that now goeth on his way weeping, and beareth forth good seed, * shall doubtless come again with joy, and bring his sheaves with him.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 127. <i>Nisi Dominus.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">EXCEPT the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> build the house, * their labour is but lost that build it.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Except the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> keep the city, * the watchman waketh but in vain.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 It is but lost labour that ye haste to rise up early, and so late take rest, and eat the bread of carefulness; * for so he giveth his beloved sleep.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Lo, children, and the fruit of the womb, * are an heritage and gift that cometh of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Like as the arrows in the hand of the giant, * even so are the young children.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 Happy is the man that hath his quiver full of them; * they shall not be ashamed when they speak with their enemies in the gate.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 128. <i>Beati omnes.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">BLESSED are all they that fear the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, * and walk in his ways.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 For thou shalt eat the labours of thine hands: * O well is thee, and happy shalt thou be.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Thy wife shall be as the fruitful vine * upon the walls of thine house;</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Thy children like the olive branches * round about thy table.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Lo, thus shall the man be blessed * that feareth the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> from out of Sion shall so bless thee, * that thou shalt see Jerusalem in prosperity all thy life long;</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 Yea, that thou shalt see thy children’s children, * and peace upon Israel.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 129. <i>Saepe expugnaverunt.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">MANY a time have they fought against me from my youth up, * may Israel now say;</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Yea, many a time have they vexed me from my youth up; * but they have not prevailed against me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 The plowers plowed upon my back, * and made long furrows.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 But the righteous <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> * hath hewn the snares of the ungodly in pieces.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Let them be confounded and turned backward, * as many as have evil will at Sion.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 Let them be even as the grass upon the housetops, * which withereth afore it be grown up;</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 Whereof the mower filleth not his hand, * neither he that bindeth up the sheaves his bosom.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 So that they who go by say not so much as, The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> prosper you; * we wish you good luck in the Name of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 130. <i>De profundis.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">OUT of the deep have I called unto thee, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * Lord, hear my voice.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 O let thine ears consider well * the voice of my complaint.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 If thou, <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, wilt be extreme to mark what is done amiss, * O Lord, who may abide it?</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 For there is mercy with thee; * therefore shalt thou be feared.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 I look for the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; my soul doth wait for him; * in his word is my trust.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 My soul fleeth unto the Lord before the morning watch; * I say, before the morning watch.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 O Israel, trust in the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; for with the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> there is mercy, * and with him is plenteous redemption.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 And he shall redeem Israel * from all his sins.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 131. <i>Domine, non est.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">LORD, I am not high-minded; * I have no proud looks.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 I do not exercise myself in great matters * which are too high for me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 But I refrain my soul, and keep it low, like as a child that is weaned from his mother: * yea, my soul is even as a weaned child.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 O Israel, trust in the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> * from this time forth for evermore.</p>
</body>
</html>
