<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Book of Common Prayer - 1928</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/bcp.css" />
</head>

<body>
  <h3 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_2">The Twenty-eighth Day.</h3>

  <p class="centered" id="PSM28">Morning Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 132. <i>Memento, Domine.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">LORD, remember David, * and all his trouble:</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 How he sware unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, * and vowed a vow unto the Almighty God of Jacob:</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 I will not come within the tabernacle of mine house, * nor climb up into my bed;</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 I will not suffer mine eyes to sleep, nor mine eyelids to slumber; * neither the temples of my head to take any rest;</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Until I find out a place for the temple of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * an habitation for the Mighty God of Jacob.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 Lo, we heard of the same at Ephratah, * and found it in the wood.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 We will go into his tabernacle, * and fall low on our knees before his footstool.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Arise, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, into thy resting place; * thou, and the ark of thy strength.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 Let thy priests be clothed with righteousness; * and let thy saints sing with joyfulness.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 For thy servant David’s sake, * turn not away the face of thine anointed.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> hath made a faithful oath unto David, * and he shall not shrink from it:</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 Of the fruit of thy body * shall I set upon thy throne.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 If thy children will keep my covenant, and my testimonies that I shall teach them; * their children also shall sit upon thy throne for evermore.</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 For the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> hath chosen Sion to be an habitation for himself; * he hath longed for her.</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 This shall be my rest for ever: * here will I dwell, for I have a delight therein.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 I will bless her victuals with increase, * and will satisfy her poor with bread.</p>

  <p class="psalm">17 I will deck her priests with health, * and her saints shall rejoice and sing.</p>

  <p class="psalm">18 There shall I make the horn of David to flourish: * I have ordained a lantern for mine anointed.</p>

  <p class="psalm">19 As for his enemies, I shall clothe them with shame; * but upon himself shall his crown flourish.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 133. <i>Ecce, quam bonum!</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">BEHOLD, how good and joyful a thing it is, * for brethren to dwell together in unity!</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 It is like the precious oil upon the head, that ran down unto the beard, * even unto Aaron’s beard, and went down to the skirts of his clothing.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Like as the dew of Hermon, * which fell upon the hill of Sion.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 For there the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> promised his blessing, * and life for evermore.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 134. <i>Ecce nunc.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">BEHOLD now, praise the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, * all ye servants of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>;</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Ye that by night stand in the house of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, * even in the courts of the house of our God.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Lift up your hands in the sanctuary, * and praise the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> that made heaven and earth * give thee blessing out of Sion.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 135. <i>Laudate Nomen.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">O PRAISE the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, laud ye the Name of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * praise it, O ye servants of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>;</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Ye that stand in the house of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, * in the courts of the house of our God.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 O praise the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, for the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> is gracious; * O sing praises unto his Name, for it is lovely.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 For why? the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> hath chosen Jacob unto himself, * and Israel for his own possession.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 For I know that the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> is great, * and that our Lord is above all gods.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 Whatsoever the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> pleased, that did he in heaven, and in earth; * and in the sea, and in all deep places.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 He bringeth forth the clouds from the ends of the world, * and sendeth forth lightnings with the rain, bringing the winds out of his treasuries.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 He smote the firstborn of Egypt, * both of man and beast.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 He hath sent tokens and wonders into the midst of thee, O thou land of Egypt; * upon Pharaoh, and all his servants.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 He smote divers nations, * and slew mighty kings:</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 Sihon, king of the Amorites; and Og, the king of Bashan; * and all the kingdoms of Canaan;</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 And gave their land to be an heritage, * even an heritage unto Israel his people.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 Thy Name, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, endureth for ever; * so doth thy memorial, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, from one generation to another.</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 For the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> will avenge his people, * and be gracious unto his servants.</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 As for the images of the heathen, they are but silver and gold; * the work of men’s hands.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 They have mouths, and speak not; * eyes have they, but they see not.</p>

  <p class="psalm">17 They have ears, and yet they hear not; * neither is there any breath in their mouths.</p>

  <p class="psalm">18 They that make them are like unto them; * and so are all they that put their trust in them.</p>

  <p class="psalm">19 Praise the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, ye house of Israel; * praise the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, ye house of Aaron.</p>

  <p class="psalm">20 Praise the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, ye house of Levi; * ye that fear the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, praise the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>.</p>

  <p class="psalm">21 Praised be the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> out of Sion, * who dwelleth at Jerusalem.</p>

  <p class="centered" id="PSE28">Evening Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 136. <i>Confitemini.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">O GIVE thanks unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, for he is gracious: * and his mercy endureth for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 O give thanks unto the God of all gods: * for his mercy endureth for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 O thank the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> of all lords: * for his mercy endureth for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Who only doeth great wonders: * for his mercy endureth for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Who by his excellent wisdom made the heavens: * for his mercy endureth for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 Who laid out the earth above the waters: * for his mercy endureth for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 Who hath made great lights: * for his mercy endureth for ever:</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 The sun to rule the day: * for his mercy endureth for ever;</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 The moon and the stars to govern the night: * for his mercy endureth for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 Who smote Egypt, with their firstborn: * for his mercy endureth for ever;</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 And brought out Israel from among them: * for his mercy endureth for ever;</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 With a mighty hand and stretched-out arm: * for his mercy endureth for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 Who divided the Red Sea in two parts: * for his mercy endureth for ever;</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 And made Israel to go through the midst of it: * for his mercy endureth for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 But as for Pharaoh and his host, he overthrew them in the Red Sea: * for his mercy endureth for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 Who led his people through the wilderness: * for his mercy endureth for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">17 Who smote great kings: * for his mercy endureth for ever;</p>

  <p class="psalm">18 Yea, and slew mighty kings: * for his mercy endureth for ever:</p>

  <p class="psalm">19 Sihon, king of the Amorites: * for his mercy endureth for ever;</p>

  <p class="psalm">20 And Og, the king of Bashan: * for his mercy endureth for ever;</p>

  <p class="psalm">21 And gave away their land for an heritage: * for his mercy endureth for ever;</p>

  <p class="psalm">22 Even for an heritage unto Israel his servant: * for his mercy endureth for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">23 Who remembered us when we were in trouble: * for his mercy endureth for ever;</p>

  <p class="psalm">24 And hath delivered us from our enemies: * for his mercy endureth for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">25 Who giveth food to all flesh: * for his mercy endureth for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">26 O give thanks unto the God of heaven: * for his mercy endureth for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">27 O give thanks unto the Lord of lords: * for his mercy endureth for ever.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 137. <i>Super flumina.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">BY the waters of Babylon we sat down and wept, * when we remembered thee, O Sion.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 As for our harps, we hanged them up * upon the trees that are therein.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 For they that led us away captive, required of us then a song, and melody in our heaviness: * Sing us one of the songs of Sion.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 How shall we sing the <span class="smallcaps">Lord’s</span> song * in a strange land?</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 If I forget thee, O Jerusalem, * let my right hand forget her cunning.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 If I do not remember thee, let my tongue cleave to the roof of my mouth; * yea, if I prefer not Jerusalem above my chief joy.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 Remember the children of Edom, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, in the day of Jerusalem; * how they said, Down with it, down with it, even to the ground.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 O daughter of Babylon, wasted with misery; * yea, happy shall he be that rewardeth thee as thou hast served us.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 Blessed shall he be that taketh thy children, * and throweth them against the stones.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 138. <i>Confitebor tibi.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">I WILL give thanks unto thee, O Lord, with my whole heart; * even before the gods will I sing praise unto thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 I will worship toward thy holy temple, and praise thy Name, because of thy loving-kindness and truth; * for thou hast magnified thy Name, and thy word, above all things.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 When I called upon thee, thou heardest me; * and enduedst my soul with much strength.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 All the kings of the earth shall praise thee, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * for they have heard the words of thy mouth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Yea, they shall sing of the ways of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, * that great is the glory of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 For though the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> be high, yet hath he respect unto the lowly; * as for the proud, he beholdeth them afar off.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 Though I walk in the midst of trouble, yet shalt thou refresh me; * thou shalt stretch forth thy hand upon the furiousness of mine enemies, and thy right hand shall save me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> shall make good his loving-kindness toward me; * yea, thy mercy, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, endureth for ever; despise not then the works of thine own hands.</p>
</body>
</html>
