<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Book of Common Prayer - 1928</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/bcp.css" />
</head>

<body>
  <h3 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_2">The Twenty-ninth Day.</h3>

  <p class="centered" id="PSM29">Morning Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 139. <i>Domine, probasti.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">O LORD, thou hast searched me out, and known me. * Thou knowest my down-sitting, and mine uprising; thou understandest my thoughts long before.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Thou art about my path, and about my bed; * and art acquainted with all my ways.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 For lo, there is not a word in my tongue, * but thou, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, knowest it altogether.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Thou hast beset me behind and before, * and laid thine hand upon me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Such knowledge is too wonderful and excellent for me; * I cannot attain unto it.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 Whither shall I go then from thy Spirit? * or whither shall I go then from thy presence?</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 If I climb up into heaven, thou art there; * if I go down to hell, thou art there also.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 If I take the wings of the morning, * and remain in the uttermost parts of the sea;</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 Even there also shall thy hand lead me, * and thy right hand shall hold me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 If I say, Peradventure the darkness shall cover me; * then shall my night be turned to day.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 Yea, the darkness is no darkness with thee, but the night is as clear as the day; * the darkness and light to thee are both alike.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 For my reins are thine; * thou hast covered me in my mother’s womb.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 I will give thanks unto thee, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made: * marvellous are thy works, and that my soul knoweth right well.</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 My bones are not hid from thee, * though I be made secretly, and fashioned beneath in the earth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 Thine eyes did see my substance, yet being imperfect; * and in thy book were all my members written;</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 Which day by day were fashioned, * when as yet there was none of them.</p>

  <p class="psalm">17 How dear are thy counsels unto me, O God; * O how great is the sum of them!</p>

  <p class="psalm">18 If I tell them, they are more in number than the sand: * when I wake up, I am present with thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">19 Wilt thou not slay the wicked, O God? * Depart from me, ye bloodthirsty men.</p>

  <p class="psalm">20 For they speak unrighteously against thee; * and thine enemies take thy Name in vain.</p>

  <p class="psalm">21 Do not I hate them, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, that hate thee? * and am not I grieved with those that rise up against thee?</p>

  <p class="psalm">22 Yea, I hate them right sore; * even as though they were mine enemies.</p>

  <p class="psalm">23 Try me, O God, and seek the ground of my heart; * prove me, and examine my thoughts.</p>

  <p class="psalm">24 Look well if there be any way of wickedness in me; * and lead me in the way everlasting.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 140. <i>Eripe me, Domine.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">DELIVER me, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, from the evil man; * and preserve me from the wicked man;</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Who imagine mischief in their hearts, * and stir up strife all the day long.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 They have sharpened their tongues like a serpent; * adder’s poison is under their lips.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Keep me, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, from the hands of the ungodly; * preserve me from the wicked men, who are purposed to overthrow my goings.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 The proud have laid a snare for me, and spread a net abroad with cords; * yea, and set traps in my way.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 I said unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, Thou art my God, * hear the voice of my prayers, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> God, thou strength of my health; * thou hast covered my head in the day of battle.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Let not the ungodly have his desire, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * let not his mischievous imagination prosper, lest they be too proud.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 Let the mischief of their own lips fall upon the head of them * that compass me about.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 Let hot burning coals fall upon them; * let them be cast into the fire, and into the pit, that they never rise up again.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 A man full of words shall not prosper upon the earth: * evil shall hunt the wicked person to overthrow him.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 Sure I am that the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> will avenge the poor, * and maintain the cause of the helpless.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 The righteous also shall give thanks unto thy Name; * and the just shall continue in thy sight.</p>

  <p class="centered" id="PSE29">Evening Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 141. <i>Domine, clamavi.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">LORD, I call upon thee; haste thee unto me, * and consider my voice, when I cry unto thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Let my prayer be set forth in thy sight as the incense; * and let the lifting up of my hands be an evening sacrifice.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Set a watch, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, before my mouth, * and keep the door of my lips.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 O let not mine heart be inclined to any evil thing; * let me not be occupied in ungodly works with the men that work wickedness, neither let me eat of such things as please them.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Let the righteous rather smite me friendly, and reprove me; * yea, let not my head refuse their precious balms.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 As for the ungodly, * I will pray yet against their wickedness.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 Let their judges be overthrown in stony places, * that they may hear my words; for they are sweet.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Our bones lie scattered before the pit, * like as when one breaketh and heweth wood upon the earth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 But mine eyes look unto thee, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> God; * in thee is my trust; O cast not out my soul.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 Keep me from the snare that they have laid for me, * and from the traps of the wicked doers.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 Let the ungodly fall into their own nets together, * and let me ever escape them.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 142. <i>Voce mea ad Dominum.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">I CRIED unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> with my voice; * yea, even unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> did I make my supplication.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 I poured out my complaints before him, * and showed him of my trouble.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 When my spirit was in heaviness, thou knewest my path; * in the way wherein I walked, have they privily laid a snare for me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 I looked also upon my right hand, * and saw there was no man that would know me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 I had no place to flee unto, * and no man cared for my soul.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 I cried unto thee, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, and said, * Thou art my hope, and my portion in the land of the living.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 Consider my complaint; * for I am brought very low.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 O deliver me from my persecutors; * for they are too strong for me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 Bring my soul out of prison, that I may give thanks unto thy Name; * which thing if thou wilt grant me, then shall the righteous resort unto my company.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 143. <i>Domine, exaudi.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">HEAR my prayer, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, and consider my desire; * hearken unto me for thy truth and righteousness’ sake.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 And enter not into judgment with thy servant; * for in thy sight shall no man living be justified.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 For the enemy hath persecuted my soul; he hath smitten my life down to the ground; * he hath laid me in the darkness, as the men that have been long dead.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Therefore is my spirit vexed within me, * and my heart within me is desolate.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Yet do I remember the time past; I muse upon all thy works; * yea, I exercise myself in the works of thy hands.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 I stretch forth my hands unto thee; * my soul gaspeth unto thee as a thirsty land.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 Hear me, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, and that soon; for my spirit waxeth faint: * hide not thy face from me, lest I be like unto them that go down into the pit.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 O let me hear thy loving-kindness betimes in the morning; for in thee is my trust: * show thou me the way that I should walk in; for I lift up my soul unto thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 Deliver me, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, from mine enemies; * for I flee unto thee to hide me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 Teach me to do the thing that pleaseth thee; for thou art my God: * let thy loving Spirit lead me forth into the land of righteousness.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 Quicken me, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, for thy Name’s sake; * and for thy righteousness’ sake bring my soul out of trouble.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 And of thy goodness slay mine enemies, * and destroy all them that vex my soul; for I am thy servant.</p>
</body>
</html>
