<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Book of Common Prayer - 1928</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/bcp.css" />
</head>

<body>
  <h3 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_4">The Second Day.</h3>

  <p class="centered" id="PSM2">Morning Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 9. <i>Confitebor tibi.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">I WILL give thanks unto thee, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, with my whole heart; * I will speak of all thy marvellous works.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 I will be glad and rejoice in thee; * yea, my songs will I make of thy Name, O thou Most Highest.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 While mine enemies are driven back, * they shall fall and perish at thy presence.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 For thou hast maintained my right and my cause; * thou art set in the throne that judgest right.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Thou hast rebuked the heathen, and destroyed the ungodly; * thou hast put out their name for ever and ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 O thou enemy, thy destructions are come to a perpetual end; * even as the cities which thou hast destroyed, whose memorial is perished with them.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 But the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> shall endure for ever; * he hath also prepared his seat for judgment.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 For he shall judge the world in righteousness, * and minister true judgment unto the people.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> also will be a defence for the oppressed, * even a refuge in due time of trouble.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 And they that know thy Name will put their trust in thee; * for thou, <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, hast never failed them that seek thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 O praise the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> which dwelleth in Sion; * show the people of his doings.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 For when he maketh inquisition for blood, he remembereth them, * and forgetteth not the complaint of the poor.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 Have mercy upon me, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; consider the trouble which I suffer of them that hate me, * thou that liftest me up from the gates of death;</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 That I may show all thy praises within the gates of the daughter of Sion: * I will rejoice in thy salvation.</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 The heathen are sunk down in the pit that they made; * in the same net which they hid privily is their foot taken.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> is known to execute judgment; * the ungodly is trapped in the work of his own hands.</p>

  <p class="psalm">17 The wicked shall be turned to destruction, * and all the people that forget God.</p>

  <p class="psalm">18 For the poor shall not alway be forgotten; * the patient abiding of the meek shall not perish for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">19 Up, <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, and let not man have the upper hand; * let the heathen be judged in thy sight.</p>

  <p class="psalm">20 Put them in fear, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, * that the heathen may know themselves to be but men.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 10. <i>Ut quid, Domine?</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">WHY standest thou so far off, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, * and hidest thy face in the needful time of trouble?</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 The ungodly, for his own lust, doth persecute the poor: * let them be taken in the crafty wiliness that they have imagined.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 For the ungodly hath made boast of his own heart’s desire, * and speaketh good of the covetous, whom the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> abhorreth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 The ungodly is so proud, that he careth not for God, * neither is God in all his thoughts.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 His ways are alway grievous; * thy judgments are far above out of his sight, and therefore defieth he all his enemies.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 For he hath said in his heart, Tush, I shall never be cast down, * there shall no harm happen unto me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 His mouth is full of cursing, deceit, and fraud; * under his tongue is ungodliness and vanity.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 He sitteth lurking in the thievish corners of the streets, * and privily in his lurking dens doth he murder the innocent; his eyes are set against the poor.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 For he lieth waiting secretly; even as a lion lurketh he in his den, * that he may ravish the poor.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 He doth ravish the poor, * when he getteth him into his net.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 He falleth down, and humbleth himself, * that the congregation of the poor may fall into the hands of his captains.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 He hath said in his heart, Tush, God hath forgotten; * he hideth away his face, and he will never see it.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 Arise, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> God, and lift up thine hand; * forget not the poor.</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 Wherefore should the wicked blaspheme God, * while he doth say in his heart, Tush, thou God carest not for it?</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 Surely thou hast seen it; * for thou beholdest ungodliness and wrong, that thou mayest take the matter into thy hand.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 The poor committeth himself unto thee; * for thou art the helper of the friendless.</p>

  <p class="psalm">17 Break thou the power of the ungodly and malicious; * search out his ungodliness, until thou find none.</p>

  <p class="psalm">18 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> is King for ever and ever, * and the heathen are perished out of the land.</p>

  <p class="psalm">19 <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, thou hast heard the desire of the poor; * thou preparest their heart, and thine ear hearkeneth;</p>

  <p class="psalm">20 To help the fatherless and poor unto their right, * that the man of the earth be no more exalted against them.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 11. <i>In Domino confido.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">IN the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> put I my trust; * how say ye then to my soul, that she should flee as a bird unto the hill?</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 For lo, the ungodly bend their bow, and make ready their arrows within the quiver, * that they may privily shoot at them which are true of heart.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 If the foundations be destroyed, * what can the righteous do?</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> is in his holy temple; * the <span class="smallcaps">Lord’s</span> seat is in heaven.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 His eyes consider the poor, * and his eyelids try the children of men.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> approveth the righteous: * but the ungodly, and him that delighteth in wickedness, doth his soul abhor.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 Upon the ungodly he shall rain snares, fire and brimstone, storm and tempest: * this shall be their portion to drink.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 For the righteous <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> loveth righteousness; * his countenance will behold the thing that is just.</p>

  <p class="centered" id="PSE2">Evening Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 12. <i>Salvum me fac.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">HELP me, <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, for there is not one godly man left; * for the faithful are minished from among the children of men.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 They talk of vanity every one with his neighbour; * they do but flatter with their lips, and dissemble in their double heart.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> shall root out all deceitful lips, * and the tongue that speaketh proud things;</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Which have said, With our tongue will we prevail; * we are they that ought to speak; who is lord over us?</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Now, for the comfortless troubles’ sake of the needy, * and because of the deep sighing of the poor,</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 I will up, saith the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * and will help every one from him that swelleth against him, and will set him at rest.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 The words of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> are pure words; * even as the silver which from the earth is tried, and purified seven times in the fire.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Thou shalt keep them, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * thou shalt preserve them from this generation for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 The ungodly walk on every side: * when they are exalted, the children of men are put to rebuke.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 13. <i>Usquequo, Domine?</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">HOW long wilt thou forget me, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; for ever? * how long wilt thou hide thy face from me?</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 How long shall I seek counsel in my soul, and be so vexed in my heart? * how long shall mine enemy triumph over me?</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Consider, and hear me, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> my God; * lighten mine eyes, that I sleep not in death;</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Lest mine enemy say, I have prevailed against him: * for if I be cast down, they that trouble me will rejoice at it.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 But my trust is in thy mercy, * and my heart is joyful in thy salvation.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 I will sing of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, because he hath dealt so lovingly with me; * yea, I will praise the Name of the Lord Most Highest.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 14. <i>Dixit insipiens.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">THE fool hath said in his heart, * There is no God.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 They are corrupt, and become abominable in their doings; * there is none that doeth good, no not one.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> looked down from heaven upon the children of men, * to see if there were any that would understand, and seek after God.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 But they are all gone out of the way, they are altogether become abominable; * there is none that doeth good, no not one.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Have they no knowledge, that they are all such workers of mischief, * eating up my people as it were bread, and call not upon the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>?</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 There were they brought in great fear, even where no fear was; * for God is in the generation of the righteous.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 As for you, ye have made a mock at the counsel of the poor; * because he putteth his trust in the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Who shall give salvation unto Israel out of Sion? * When the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> turneth the captivity of his people, then shall Jacob rejoice, and Israel shall be glad.</p>
</body>
</html>
