<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Book of Common Prayer - 1928</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/bcp.css" />
</head>

<body>
  <h3 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_2">The Thirtieth Day</h3>

  <p class="centered" id="PSM30">Morning Prayer</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 144. <i>Benedictus Dominus.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">BLESSED be the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> my strength, * who teacheth my hands to war, and my fingers to fight:</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 My hope and my fortress, my castle and deliverer, my defender in whom I trust; * who subdueth my people that is under me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, what is man, that thou hast such respect unto him? * or the son of man, that thou so regardest him?</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Man is like a thing of nought; * his time passeth away like a shadow.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Bow thy heavens, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, and come down; * touch the mountains, and they shall smoke.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 Cast forth thy lightning, and tear them; * shoot out thine arrows, and consume them.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 Send down thine hand from above; * deliver me, and take me out of the great waters, from the hand of strangers;</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Whose mouth talketh of vanity, * and their right hand is a right hand of wickedness.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 I will sing a new song unto thee, O God; * and sing praises unto thee upon a ten-stringed lute.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 Thou hast given victory unto kings, * and hast delivered David thy servant from the peril of the sword.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 Save me, and deliver me from the hand of strangers, * whose mouth talketh of vanity, and their right hand is a right hand of iniquity:</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 That our sons may grow up as the young plants, * and that our daughters may be as the polished corners of the temple;</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 That our garners may be full and plenteous with all manner of store; * that our sheep may bring forth thousands, and ten thousands in our fields;</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 That our oxen may be strong to labour; that there be no decay, * no leading into captivity, and no complaining in our streets.</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 Happy are the people that are in such a case; * yea, blessed are the people who have the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> for their God.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 145. <i>Exaltabo te, Deus.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">I WILL magnify thee, O God, my King; * and I will praise thy Name for ever and ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Every day will I give thanks unto thee; * and praise thy Name for ever and ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Great is the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, and marvellous worthy to be praised; * there is no end of his greatness.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 One generation shall praise thy works unto another, * and declare thy power.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 As for me, I will be talking of thy worship, * thy glory, thy praise, and wondrous works;</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 So that men shall speak of the might of thy marvellous acts; * and I will also tell of thy greatness.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 The memorial of thine abundant kindness shall be showed; * and men shall sing of thy righteousness.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> is gracious and merciful; * long-suffering, and of great goodness.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> is loving unto every man; * and his mercy is over all his works.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 All thy works praise thee, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * and thy saints give thanks unto thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 They show the glory of thy kingdom, * and talk of thy power;</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 That thy power, thy glory, and mightiness of thy kingdom, * might be known unto men.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 Thy kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, * and thy dominion endureth throughout all ages.</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> upholdeth all such as fall, * and lifteth up all those that are down.</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 The eyes of all wait upon thee, O Lord; * and thou givest them their meat in due season.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 Thou openest thine hand, * and fillest all things living with plenteousness.</p>

  <p class="psalm">17 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> is righteous in all his ways, * and holy in all his works.</p>

  <p class="psalm">18 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> is nigh unto all them that call upon him; * yea, all such as call upon him faithfully.</p>

  <p class="psalm">19 He will fulfil the desire of them that fear him; * he also will hear their cry, and will help them.</p>

  <p class="psalm">20 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> preserveth all them that love him; * but scattereth abroad all the ungodly.</p>

  <p class="psalm">21 My mouth shall speak the praise of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * and let all flesh give thanks unto his holy Name for ever and ever.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 146. <i>Lauda, anima mea.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">PRAISE the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, O my soul: while I live, will I praise the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * yea, as long as I have any being, I will sing praises unto my God.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 O put not your trust in princes, nor in any child of man; * for there is no help in them.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 For when the breath of man goeth forth, he shall turn again to his earth, * and then all his thoughts perish.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Blessed is he that hath the God of Jacob for his help, * and whose hope is in the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> his God:</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Who made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that therein is; * who keepeth his promise for ever;</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 Who helpeth them to right that suffer wrong; * who feedeth the hungry.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> looseth men out of prison; * the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> giveth sight to the blind.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> helpeth them that are fallen; * the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> careth for the righteous.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> careth for the strangers; he defendeth the fatherless and widow: * as for the way of the ungodly, he turneth it upside down.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> thy God, O Sion, shall be King for evermore, * and throughout all generations.</p>

  <p class="centered" id="PSE30">Evening Prayer</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 147. <i>Laudate Dominum.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">PRAISE the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, for it is a good thing to sing praises unto our God; * yea, a joyful and pleasant thing it is to be thankful.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> doth build up Jerusalem, * and gather together the outcasts of Israel.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 He healeth those that are broken in heart, * and giveth medicine to heal their sickness.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 He telleth the number of the stars, * and calleth them all by their names.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Great is our Lord, and great is his power; * yea, and his wisdom is infinite.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> setteth up the meek, * and bringeth the ungodly down to the ground.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 O sing unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> with thanksgiving; * sing praises upon the harp unto our God:</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Who covereth the heaven with clouds, and prepareth rain for the earth; * and maketh the grass to grow upon the mountains, and herb for the use of men;</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 Who giveth fodder unto the cattle, * and feedeth the young ravens that call upon him.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 He hath no pleasure in the strength of an horse; * neither delighteth he in any man’s legs.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 But the <span class="smallcaps">Lord’s</span> delight is in them that fear him, * and put their trust in his mercy.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 Praise the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, O Jerusalem; * praise thy God, O Sion.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 For he hath made fast the bars of thy gates, * and hath blessed thy children within thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 He maketh peace in thy borders, * and filleth thee with the flour of wheat.</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 He sendeth forth his commandment upon earth, * and his word runneth very swiftly.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 He giveth snow like wool, * and scattereth the hoarfrost like ashes.</p>

  <p class="psalm">17 He casteth forth his ice like morsels: * who is able to abide his frost?</p>

  <p class="psalm">18 He sendeth out his word, and melteth them: * he bloweth with his wind, and the waters flow.</p>

  <p class="psalm">19 He showeth his word unto Jacob, * his statutes and ordinances unto Israel.</p>

  <p class="psalm">20 He hath not dealt so with any nation; * neither have the heathen knowledge of his laws.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 148. <i>Laudate Dominum.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">O PRAISE the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> from the heavens: * praise him in the heights.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Praise him, all ye angels of his: * praise him, all his host.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Praise him, sun and moon: * praise him, all ye stars and light.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Praise him, all ye heavens, * and ye waters that are above the heavens.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Let them praise the Name of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>: * for he spake the word, and they were made; he commanded, and they were created.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 He hath made them fast for ever and ever: * he hath given them a law which shall not be broken.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 Praise the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> from the earth, * ye dragons and all deeps;</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Fire and hail, snow and vapours, * wind and storm, fulfilling his word;</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 Mountains and all hills; * fruitful trees and all cedars;</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 Beasts and all cattle; * creeping things and flying fowls;</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 Kings of the earth, and all peoples; * princes, and all judges of the world;</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 Young men and maidens, old men and children, praise the Name of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>: * for his Name only is excellent, and his praise above heaven and earth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 He shall exalt the horn of his people: all his saints shall praise him; * even the children of Israel, even the people that serveth him.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 149. <i>Cantate Domino.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">O SING unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> a new song; * let the congregation of saints praise him.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Let Israel rejoice in him that made him, * and let the children of Sion be joyful in their King.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Let them praise his Name in the dance: * let them sing praises unto him with tabret and harp.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 For the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> hath pleasure in his people, * and helpeth the meek-hearted.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Let the saints be joyful with glory; * let them rejoice in their beds.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 Let the praises of God be in their mouth; * and a two-edged sword in their hands;</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 To be avenged of the nations, * and to rebuke the peoples;</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 To bind their kings in chains, * and their nobles with links of iron;</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 To execute judgment upon them; as it is written, * Such honour have all his saints.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 150. <i>Laudate Dominum.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">O PRAISE God in his sanctuary: * praise him in the firmament of his power.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Praise him in his noble acts: * praise him according to his excellent greatness.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Praise him in the sound of the trumpet: * praise him upon the lute and harp.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Praise him in the timbrels and dances: * praise him upon the strings and pipe.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Praise him upon the well-tuned cymbals: * praise him upon the loud cymbals.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 Let every thing that hath breath * praise the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>.</p>
  <hr class="ten" />

  <p class="centered">The End of the Psalter.</p>
</body>
</html>
