<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Book of Common Prayer - 1928</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/bcp.css" />
</head>

<body>
  <h3 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_5">The Third Day.</h3>

  <p class="centered" id="PSM3">Morning Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 15. <i>Domine, quis habitabit?</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">LORD, who shall dwell in thy tabernacle? * or who shall rest upon thy holy hill?</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Even he that leadeth an uncorrupt life, * and doeth the thing which is right, and speaketh the truth from his heart.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 He that hath used no deceit in his tongue, nor done evil to his neighbour, * and hath not slandered his neighbour.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 He that setteth not by himself, but is lowly in his own eyes, * and maketh much of them that fear the Lord.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 He that sweareth unto his neighbour, and disappointeth him not, * though it were to his own hindrance.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 He that hath not given his money upon usury, * nor taken reward against the innocent.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 Whoso doeth these things * shall never fall.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 16. <i>Conserva me, Domine.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">PRESERVE me, O God; * for in thee have I put my trust.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 O my soul, thou hast said unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, * Thou art my God; I have no good like unto thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 All my delight is upon the saints that are in the earth, * and upon such as excel in virtue.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 But they that run after another god * shall have great trouble.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Their drink-offerings of blood will I not offer, * neither make mention of their names within my lips.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> himself is the portion of mine inheritance, and of my cup; * thou shalt maintain my lot.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 The lot is fallen unto me in a fair ground; * yea, I have a goodly heritage.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 I will thank the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> for giving me warning; * my reins also chasten me in the night season.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 I have set the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> alway before me; * for he is on my right hand, therefore I shall not fall.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 Wherefore my heart is glad, and my glory rejoiceth: * my flesh also shall rest in hope.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 For why? thou shalt not leave my soul in hell; * neither shalt thou suffer thy Holy One to see corruption.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 Thou shalt show me the path of life: in thy presence is the fulness of joy, * and at thy right hand there is pleasure for evermore.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 17. <i>Exaudi, Domine.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">HEAR the right, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, consider my complaint, * and hearken unto my prayer, that goeth not out of feigned lips.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Let my sentence come forth from thy presence; * and let thine eyes look upon the thing that is equal.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Thou hast proved and visited mine heart in the night season; thou hast tried me, and shalt find no wickedness in me; * for I am utterly purposed that my mouth shall not offend.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 As for the works of men, * by the word of thy lips I have kept me from the ways of the destroyer.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 O hold thou up my goings in thy paths, * that my footsteps slip not.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 I have called upon thee, O God, for thou shalt hear me: * incline thine ear to me, and hearken unto my words.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 Show thy marvellous loving-kindness, thou that art the Saviour of them which put their trust in thee, * from such as resist thy right hand.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Keep me as the apple of an eye; * hide me under the shadow of thy wings,</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 From the ungodly, that trouble me; * mine enemies compass me round about, to take away my soul.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 They are inclosed in their own fat, * and their mouth speaketh proud things.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 They lie waiting in our way on every side, * watching to cast us down to the ground;</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 Like as a lion that is greedy of his prey, * and as it were a lion’s whelp lurking in secret places.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 Up, <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, disappoint him, and cast him down; * deliver my soul from the ungodly, by thine own sword;</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 Yea, by thy hand, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; from the men of the evil world; * which have their portion in this life, whose bellies thou fillest with thy hid treasure.</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 They have children at their desire, * and leave the rest of their substance for their babes.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 But as for me, I shall behold thy presence in righteousness; * and when I awake up after thy likeness, I shall be satisfied.</p>

  <p class="centered" id="PSE3">Evening Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 18. <i>Diligam te, Domine.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">I WILL love thee, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, my strength. * The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> is my stony rock, and my defence;</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 My Saviour, my God, and my might, in whom I will trust; * my buckler, the horn also of my salvation, and my refuge.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 I will call upon the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, which is worthy to be praised; * so shall I be safe from mine enemies.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 The sorrows of death compassed me, * and the overflowings of ungodliness made me afraid.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 The pains of hell came about me; * the snares of death overtook me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 In my trouble I called upon the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, * and complained unto my God:</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 So he heard my voice out of his holy temple, * and my complaint came before him; it entered even into his ears.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 The earth trembled and quaked, * the very foundations also of the hills shook, and were removed, because he was wroth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 There went a smoke out in his presence, * and a consuming fire out of his mouth, so that coals were kindled at it.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 He bowed the heavens also, and came down, * and it was dark under his feet.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 He rode upon the Cherubim, and did fly; * he came flying upon the wings of the wind.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 He made darkness his secret place, * his pavilion round about him with dark water, and thick clouds to cover him.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 At the brightness of his presence his clouds removed; * hailstones and coals of fire.</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> also thundered out of heaven, and the Highest gave his thunder; * hailstones and coals of fire.</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 He sent out his arrows, and scattered them; * he cast forth lightnings, and destroyed them.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 The springs of waters were seen, and the foundations of the round world were discovered, * at thy chiding, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, at the blasting of the breath of thy displeasure.</p>

  <p class="psalm">17 He sent down from on high to fetch me, * and took me out of many waters.</p>

  <p class="psalm">18 He delivered me from my strongest enemy, and from them which hate me; * for they were too mighty for me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">19 They came upon me in the day of my trouble; * but the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> was my upholder.</p>

  <p class="psalm">20 He brought me forth also into a place of liberty; * he brought me forth, even because he had a favour unto me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">21 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> rewarded me after my righteous dealing, * according to the cleanness of my hands did he recompense me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">22 Because I have kept the ways of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, * and have not forsaken my God, as the wicked doth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">23 For I have an eye unto all his laws, * and will not cast out his commandments from me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">24 I was also uncorrupt before him, * and eschewed mine own wickedness.</p>

  <p class="psalm">25 Therefore the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> rewarded me after my righteous dealing, * and according unto the cleanness of my hands in his eyesight.</p>

  <p class="psalm">26 With the holy thou shalt be holy, * and with a perfect man thou shalt be perfect.</p>

  <p class="psalm">27 With the clean thou shalt be clean, * and with the froward thou shalt be froward.</p>

  <p class="psalm">28 For thou shalt save the people that are in adversity, and shalt bring down the high looks of the proud.</p>

  <p class="psalm">29 Thou also shalt light my candle; * the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> my God shall make my darkness to be light.</p>

  <p class="psalm">30 For in thee I shall discomfit an host of men, * and with the help of my God I shall leap over the wall.</p>

  <p class="psalm">31 The way of God is an undefiled way: * the word of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> also is tried in the fire; he is the defender of all them that put their trust in him.</p>

  <p class="psalm">32 For who is God, but the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>? * or who hath any strength, except our God?</p>

  <p class="psalm">33 It is God that girdeth me with strength of war, * and maketh my way perfect.</p>

  <p class="psalm">34 He maketh my feet like harts’ feet, * and setteth me up on high.</p>

  <p class="psalm">35 He teacheth mine hands to fight, * and mine arms shall bend even a bow of steel.</p>

  <p class="psalm">36 Thou hast given me the defence of thy salvation; * thy right hand also shall hold me up, and thy loving correction shall make me great.</p>

  <p class="psalm">37 Thou shalt make room enough under me for to go, * that my footsteps shall not slide.</p>

  <p class="psalm">38 I will follow upon mine enemies, and overtake them; * neither will I turn again till I have destroyed them.</p>

  <p class="psalm">39 I will smite them, that they shall not be able to stand, * but fall under my feet.</p>

  <p class="psalm">40 Thou hast girded me with strength unto the battle; * thou shalt throw down mine enemies under me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">41 Thou hast made mine enemies also to turn their backs upon me, * and I shall destroy them that hate me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">42 They shall cry, but there shall be none to help them; * yea, even unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> shall they cry, but he shall not hear them.</p>

  <p class="psalm">43 I will beat them as small as the dust before the wind: * I will cast them out as the clay in the streets.</p>

  <p class="psalm">44 Thou shalt deliver me from the strivings of the people, * and thou shalt make me the head of the nations; a people whom I have not known shall serve me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">45 As soon as they hear of me, they shall obey me; * the strangers shall feign obedience unto me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">46 The strangers shall fail, * and come trembling out of their strongholds.</p>

  <p class="psalm">47 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> liveth; and blessed be my strong helper, * and praised be the God of my salvation;</p>

  <p class="psalm">48 Even the God that seeth that I be avenged, * and subdueth the people unto me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">49 It is he that delivereth me from my cruel enemies, and setteth me up above mine adversaries: * thou shalt rid me from the wicked man.</p>

  <p class="psalm">50 For this cause will I give thanks unto thee, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, among the Gentiles, * and sing praises unto thy Name.</p>

  <p class="psalm">51 Great prosperity giveth he unto his King, * and showeth loving-kindness unto David his anointed, and unto his seed for evermore.</p>
</body>
</html>
