<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Book of Common Prayer - 1928</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/bcp.css" />
</head>

<body>
  <h3 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_6">The Fourth Day.</h3>

  <p class="centered" id="PSM4">Morning Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 19. <i>Caeli enarrant.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">THE heavens declare the glory of God; * and the firmament showeth his handy-work.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 One day telleth another; * and one night certifieth another.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 There is neither speech nor language; * but their voices are heard among them.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Their sound is gone out into all lands; * and their words into the ends of the world.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 In them hath he set a tabernacle for the sun; * which cometh forth as a bridegroom out of his chamber, and rejoiceth as a giant to run his course.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 It goeth forth from the uttermost part of the heaven, and runneth about unto the end of it again; * and there is nothing hid from the heat thereof.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 The law of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> is an undefiled law, converting the soul; * the testimony of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> is sure, and giveth wisdom unto the simple.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 The statutes of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> are right, and rejoice the heart; * the commandment of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> is pure, and giveth light unto the eyes.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 The fear of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> is clean, and endureth for ever; * the judgments of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> are true, and righteous altogether.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 More to be desired are they than gold, yea, than much fine gold; * sweeter also than honey, and the honeycomb.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 Moreover, by them is thy servant taught; * and in keeping of them there is great reward.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 Who can tell how oft he offendeth? * O cleanse thou me from my secret faults.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 Keep thy servant also from presumptuous sins, lest they get the dominion over me; * so shall I be undefiled, and innocent from the great offence.</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 Let the words of my mouth, and the meditation of my heart, be alway acceptable in thy sight, * O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, my strength and my redeemer.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 20. <i>Exaudiat te Dominus.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">THE <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> hear thee in the day of trouble; * the Name of the God of Jacob defend thee:</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Send thee help from the sanctuary, * and strengthen thee out of Sion:</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Remember all thy offerings, * and accept thy burnt sacrifice:</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Grant thee thy heart’s desire, * and fulfil all thy mind.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 We will rejoice in thy salvation, and triumph in the Name of the Lord our God: * the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> perform all thy petitions.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 Now know I that the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> helpeth his anointed, and will hear him from his holy heaven, * even with the wholesome strength of his right hand.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 Some put their trust in chariots, and some in horses; * but we will remember the Name of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> our God.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 They are brought down and fallen; * but we are risen and stand upright.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 Save, <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; and hear us, O King of heaven, * when we call upon thee.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 21. <i>Domine, in virtute tua.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">THE King shall rejoice in thy strength, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * exceeding glad shall he be of thy salvation.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Thou hast given him his heart’s desire, * and hast not denied him the request of his lips.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 For thou shalt meet him with the blessings of goodness, * and shalt set a crown of pure gold upon his head.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 He asked life of thee; and thou gavest him a long life, * even for ever and ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 His honour is great in thy salvation; * glory and great worship shalt thou lay upon him.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 For thou shalt give him everlasting felicity, * and make him glad with the joy of thy countenance.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 And why? because the King putteth his trust in the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * and in the mercy of the Most Highest he shall not miscarry.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 All thine enemies shall feel thine hand; * thy right hand shall find out them that hate thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 Thou shalt make them like a fiery oven in time of thy wrath: * the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> shall destroy them in his displeasure, and the fire shall consume them.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 Their fruit shalt thou root out of the earth, * and their seed from among the children of men.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 For they intended mischief against thee, * and imagined such a device as they are not able to perform.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 Therefore shalt thou put them to flight, * and the strings of thy bow shalt thou make ready against the face of them.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 Be thou exalted, <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, in thine own strength; * so will we sing, and praise thy power.</p>

  <p class="centered" id="PSE4">Evening Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 22. <i>Deus, Deus meus.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">MY God, my God, look upon me; why hast thou forsaken me? * and art so far from my health, and from the words of my complaint?</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 O my God, I cry in the day-time, but thou hearest not; * and in the night season also I take no rest.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 And thou continuest holy, * O thou Worship of Israel.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Our fathers hoped in thee; * they trusted in thee, and thou didst deliver them.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 They called upon thee, and were holpen; * they put their trust in thee, and were not confounded.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 But as for me, I am a worm, and no man; * a very scorn of men, and the outcast of the people.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 All they that see me laugh me to scorn; * they shoot out their lips, and shake their heads, saying,</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 He trusted in the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, that he would deliver him; * let him deliver him, if he will have him.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 But thou art he that took me out of my mother’s womb; * thou wast my hope, when I hanged yet upon my mother’s breasts.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 I have been left unto thee ever since I was born; * thou art my God even from my mother’s womb.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 O go not from me; for trouble is hard at hand, * and there is none to help me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 Many oxen are come about me; * fat bulls of Bashan close me in on every side.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 They gape upon me with their mouths, * as it were a ramping and a roaring lion.</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 I am poured out like water, and all my bones are out of joint; * my heart also in the midst of my body is even like melting wax.</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 My strength is dried up like a potsherd, and my tongue cleaveth to my gums, * and thou bringest me into the dust of death.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 For many dogs are come about me, * and the council of the wicked layeth siege against me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">17 They pierced my hands and my feet: I may tell all my bones: * they stand staring and looking upon me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">18 They part my garments among them, * and cast lots upon my vesture.</p>

  <p class="psalm">19 But be not thou far from me, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * thou art my succour, haste thee to help me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">20 Deliver my soul from the sword, * my darling from the power of the dog.</p>

  <p class="psalm">21 Save me from the lion’s mouth; * thou hast heard me also from among the horns of the unicorns.</p>

  <p class="psalm">22 I will declare thy Name unto my brethren; * in the midst of the congregation will I praise thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">23 O praise the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, ye that fear him: * magnify him, all ye of the seed of Jacob; and fear him, all ye seed of Israel.</p>

  <p class="psalm">24 For he hath not despised nor abhorred the low estate of the poor; * he hath not hid his face from him; but when he called unto him he heard him.</p>

  <p class="psalm">25 My praise is of thee in the great congregation; * my vows will I perform in the sight of them that fear him.</p>

  <p class="psalm">26 The poor shall eat, and be satisfied; they that seek after the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> shall praise him: * your heart shall live for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">27 All the ends of the world shall remember themselves, and be turned unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * and all the kindreds of the nations shall worship before him.</p>

  <p class="psalm">28 For the kingdom is the <span class="smallcaps">Lord’s</span>, * and he is the Governor among the nations.</p>

  <p class="psalm">29 All such as be fat upon earth * have eaten, and worshipped.</p>

  <p class="psalm">30 All they that go down into the dust shall kneel before him; * and no man hath quickened his own soul.</p>

  <p class="psalm">31 My seed shall serve him: * they shall be counted unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> for a generation.</p>

  <p class="psalm">32 They shall come, and shall declare his righteousness * unto a people that shall be born, whom the Lord hath made.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 23. <i>Dominus regit me.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">THE <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> is my shepherd; * therefore can I lack nothing.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 He shall feed me in a green pasture, * and lead me forth beside the waters of comfort.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 He shall convert my soul, * and bring me forth in the paths of righteousness for his Name’s sake.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil; * for thou art with me; thy rod and thy staff comfort me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Thou shalt prepare a table before me in the presence of them that trouble me; * thou hast anointed my head with oil, and my cup shall be full.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 Surely thy loving-kindness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life; * and I will dwell in the house of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> for ever.</p>
</body>
</html>
