<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Book of Common Prayer - 1928</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/bcp.css" />
</head>

<body>
  <h3 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_7">The Fifth Day.</h3>

  <p class="centered" id="PSM5">Morning Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 24. <i>Domini est terra.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">THE earth is the <span class="smallcaps">Lord’s</span>, and all that therein is; * the compass of the world, and they that dwell therein.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 For he hath founded it upon the seas, * and stablished it upon the floods.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Who shall ascend into the hill of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>? * or who shall rise up in his holy place?</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Even he that hath clean hands, and a pure heart; * and that hath not lift up his mind unto vanity, nor sworn to deceive his neighbour.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 He shall receive the blessing from the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, * and righteousness from the God of his salvation.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 This is the generation of them that seek him; * even of them that seek thy face, O God of Jacob.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 Lift up your heads, O ye gates; and be ye lift up, ye everlasting doors; * and the King of glory shall come in.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Who is this King of glory? * It is the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> strong and mighty, even the Lord mighty in battle.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 Lift up your heads, O ye gates; and be ye lift up, ye everlasting doors; * and the King of glory shall come in.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 Who is this King of glory? * Even the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> of hosts, he is the King of glory.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 25. <i>Ad te, Domine, levavi.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">UNTO thee, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, will I lift up my soul; my God, I have put my trust in thee: * O let me not be confounded, neither let mine enemies triumph over me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 For all they that hope in thee shall not be ashamed; * but such as transgress without a cause shall be put to confusion.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Show me thy ways, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, * and teach me thy paths.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Lead me forth in thy truth, and learn me: * for thou art the God of my salvation; in thee hath been my hope all the day long.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Call to remembrance, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, thy tender mercies, * and thy loving-kindnesses, which have been ever of old.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 O remember not the sins and offences of my youth; * but according to thy mercy think thou upon me, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, for thy goodness.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 Gracious and righteous is the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * therefore, will he teach sinners in the way.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Them that are meek shall he guide in judgment; * and such as are gentle, them shall he learn his way.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 All the paths of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> are mercy and truth, * unto such as keep his covenant and his testimonies.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 For thy Name’s sake, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, * be merciful unto my sin; for it is great.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 What man is he that feareth the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>? * him shall he teach in the way that he shall choose.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 His soul shall dwell at ease, * and his seed shall inherit the land.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 The secret of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> is among them that fear him; * and he will show them his covenant.</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 Mine eyes are ever looking unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * for he shall pluck my feet out of the net.</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 Turn thee unto me, and have mercy upon me; * for I am desolate, and in misery.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 The sorrows of my heart are enlarged: * O bring thou me out of my troubles.</p>

  <p class="psalm">17 Look upon my adversity and misery, * and forgive me all my sin.</p>

  <p class="psalm">18 Consider mine enemies, how many they are; * and they bear a tyrannous hate against me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">19 O keep my soul, and deliver me: * let me not be confounded, for I have put my trust in thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">20 Let perfectness and righteous dealing wait upon me; * for my hope hath been in thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">21 Deliver Israel, O God, * out of all his troubles.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 26. <i>Judica me, Domine.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">BE thou my Judge, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, for I have walked innocently: * my trust hath been also in the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, therefore shall I not fall.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Examine me, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, and prove me; * try out my reins and my heart.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 For thy loving-kindness is ever before mine eyes; * and I will walk in thy truth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 I have not dwelt with vain persons; * neither will I have fellowship with the deceitful.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 I have hated the congregation of the wicked; * and will not sit among the ungodly.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 I will wash my hands in innocency, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * and so will I go to thine altar;</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 That I may show the voice of thanksgiving, * and tell of all thy wondrous works.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, I have loved the habitation of thy house, * and the place where thine honour dwelleth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 O shut not up my soul with the sinners, * nor my life with the bloodthirsty;</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 In whose hands is wickedness, * and their right hand is full of gifts.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 But as for me, I will walk innocently: * O deliver me, and be merciful unto me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 My foot standeth right: * I will praise the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> in the congregations.</p>

  <p class="centered" id="PSE5">Evening Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 27. <i>Dominus illuminatio.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">THE <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> is my light and my salvation; whom then shall I fear? * the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> is the strength of my life; of whom then shall I be afraid?</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 When the wicked, even mine enemies and my foes, came upon me to eat up my flesh, * they stumbled and fell.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Though an host of men were laid against me, yet shall not my heart be afraid; * and though there rose up war against me, yet will I put my trust in him.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 One thing have I desired of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, which I will require; * even that I may dwell in the house of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> all the days of my life, to behold the fair beauty of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, and to visit his temple.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 For in the time of trouble he shall hide me in his tabernacle; * yea, in the secret place of his dwelling shall he hide me, and set me up upon a rock of stone.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 And now shall he lift up mine head * above mine enemies round about me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 Therefore will I offer in his dwelling an oblation, with great gladness: * I will sing and speak praises unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Hearken unto my voice, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, when I cry unto thee; * have mercy upon me, and hear me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 My heart hath talked of thee, Seek ye my face: * Thy face, <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, will I seek.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 O hide not thou thy face from me, * nor cast thy servant away in displeasure.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 Thou hast been my succour; * leave me not, neither forsake me, O God of my salvation.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 When my father and my mother forsake me, * the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> taketh me up.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 Teach me thy way, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, * and lead me in the right way, because of mine enemies.</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 Deliver me not over into the will of mine adversaries: * for there are false witnesses risen up against me, and such as speak wrong.</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 I should utterly have fainted, * but that I believe verily to see the goodness of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> in the land of the living.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 O tarry thou the <span class="smallcaps">Lord’s</span> leisure; * be strong, and he shall comfort thine heart; and put thou thy trust in the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 28. <i>Ad te, Domine.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">UNTO thee will I cry, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, my strength: * think no scorn of me; lest, if thou make as though thou hearest not, I become like them that go down into the pit.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Hear the voice of my humble petitions, when I cry unto thee; * when I hold up my hands towards the mercy seat of thy holy temple.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 O pluck me not away, neither destroy me with the ungodly and wicked doers, * which speak friendly to their neighbours, but imagine mischief in their hearts.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Reward them according to their deeds, * and according to the wickedness of their own inventions.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Recompense them after the work of their hands; * pay them that they have deserved.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 For they regard not in their mind the works of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, nor the operation of his hands; * therefore shall he break them down, and not build them up.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 Praised be the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * for he hath heard the voice of my humble petitions.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> is my strength, and my shield; my heart hath trusted in him, and I am helped; * therefore my heart danceth for joy, and in my song will I praise him.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> is my strength, * and he is the wholesome defence of his anointed.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 O save thy people, and give thy blessing unto thine inheritance: * feed them, and set them up for ever.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 29. <i>Afferte Domino.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">ASCRIBE unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, O ye mighty, * ascribe unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> worship and strength.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Ascribe unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> the honour due unto his Name; * worship the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> with holy worship.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 The voice of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> is upon the waters; * it is the glorious God that maketh the thunder.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 It is the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> that ruleth the sea; the voice of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> is mighty in operation; * the voice of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> is a glorious voice.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 The voice of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> breaketh the cedar trees; * yea, the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> breaketh the cedars of Lebanon.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 He maketh them also to skip like a calf; * Lebanon also, and Sirion, like a young unicorn.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 The voice of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> divideth the flames of fire; the voice of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> shaketh the wilderness; * yea, the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> shaketh the wilderness of Kadesh.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 The voice of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> maketh the hinds to bring forth young, and strippeth bare the forests: * in his temple doth every thing speak of his honour.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> sitteth above the water-flood, * and the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> remaineth a King for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> shall give strength unto his people; * the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> shall give his people the blessing of peace.</p>
</body>
</html>
