<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Book of Common Prayer - 1928</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/bcp.css" />
</head>

<body>
  <h3 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_8">The Sixth Day.</h3>

  <p class="centered" id="PSM6">Morning Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 30. <i>Exaltabo te, Domine.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">I WILL magnify thee, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; for thou hast set me up, * and not made my foes to triumph over me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> my God, I cried unto thee; * and thou hast healed me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Thou, <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, hast brought my soul out of hell: * thou hast kept my life, that I should not go down into the pit.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Sing praises unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, O ye saints of his; * and give thanks unto him, for a remembrance of his holiness.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 For his wrath endureth but the twinkling of an eye, and in his pleasure is life; * heaviness may endure for a night, but joy cometh in the morning.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 And in my prosperity I said, I shall never be removed: * thou, <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, of thy goodness, hast made my hill so strong.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 Thou didst turn thy face from me, * and I was troubled.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Then cried I unto thee, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * and gat me to my <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> right humbly.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 What profit is there in my blood, * when I go down into the pit?</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 Shall the dust give thanks unto thee? * or shall it declare thy truth?</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 Hear, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, and have mercy upon me; * <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, be thou my helper.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 Thou hast turned my heaviness into joy; * thou hast put off my sackcloth, and girded me with gladness:</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 Therefore shall every good man sing of thy praise without ceasing. * O my God, I will give thanks unto thee for ever.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 31. <i>In te, Domine, speravi.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">IN thee, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, have I put my trust; let me never be put to confusion; * deliver me in thy righteousness.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Bow down thine ear to me; * make haste to deliver me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 And be thou my strong rock, and house of defence, * that thou mayest save me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 For thou art my strong rock, and my castle: * be thou also my guide, and lead me for thy Name’s sake.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Draw me out of the net that they have laid privily for me; * for thou art my strength.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 Into thy hands I commend my spirit; * for thou hast redeemed me, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, thou God of truth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 I have hated them that hold of lying vanities, * and my trust hath been in the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 I will be glad and rejoice in thy mercy; * for thou hast considered my trouble, and hast known my soul in adversities.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 Thou hast not shut me up into the hand of the enemy; * but hast set my feet in a large room.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 Have mercy upon me, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, for I am in trouble, * and mine eye is consumed for very heaviness; yea, my soul and my body.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 For my life is waxen old with heaviness, * and my years with mourning.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 My strength faileth me, because of mine iniquity, * and my bones are consumed.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 I became a reproach among all mine enemies, but especially among my neighbours; * and they of mine acquaintance were afraid of me; and they that did see me without, conveyed themselves from me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 I am clean forgotten as a dead man out of mind; * I am become like a broken vessel.</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 For I have heard the blasphemy of the multitude, and fear is on every side; * while they conspire together against me, and take their counsel to take away my life.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 But my hope hath been in thee, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * I have said, Thou art my God.</p>

  <p class="psalm">17 My times are in thy hand; deliver me from the hand of mine enemies, * and from them that persecute me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">18 Show thy servant the light of thy countenance, * and save me for thy mercy’s sake.</p>

  <p class="psalm">19 Let me not be confounded, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, for I have called upon thee; * let the ungodly be put to confusion, and be put to silence in the grave.</p>

  <p class="psalm">20 Let the lying lips be put to silence, * which cruelly, disdainfully, and despitefully speak against the righteous.</p>

  <p class="psalm">21 O how plentiful is thy goodness, which thou hast laid up for them that fear thee, * and that thou hast prepared for them that put their trust in thee, even before the sons of men!</p>

  <p class="psalm">22 Thou shalt hide them in the covert of thine own presence from the plottings of men: * thou shalt keep them secretly in thy tabernacle from the strife of tongues.</p>

  <p class="psalm">23 Thanks be to the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * for he hath showed me marvellous great kindness in a strong city.</p>

  <p class="psalm">24 But in my haste I said, * I am cast out of the sight of thine eyes.</p>

  <p class="psalm">25 Nevertheless, thou heardest the voice of my prayer, * when I cried unto thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">26 O love the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, all ye his saints; * for the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> preserveth them that are faithful, and plenteously rewardeth the proud doer.</p>

  <p class="psalm">27 Be strong, and he shall establish your heart, * all ye that put your trust in the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>.</p>

  <p class="centered" id="PSE6">Evening Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 32. <i>Beati quorum.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">BLESSED is he whose unrighteousness is forgiven, * and whose sin is covered.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Blessed is the man unto whom the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> imputeth no sin, * and in whose spirit there is no guile.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 For whilst I held my tongue, * my bones consumed away through my daily complaining.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 For thy hand was heavy upon me day and night, * and my moisture was like the drought in summer.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 I acknowledged my sin unto thee; * and mine unrighteousness have I not hid.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 I said, I will confess my sins unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * and so thou forgavest the wickedness of my sin.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 For this shall every one that is godly make his prayer unto thee, in a time when thou mayest be found; * surely the great water-floods shall not come nigh him.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Thou art a place to hide me in; thou shalt preserve me from trouble; * thou shalt compass me about with songs of deliverance.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 I will inform thee, and teach thee in the way wherein thou shalt go; * and I will guide thee with mine eye.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 Be ye not like to horse and mule, which have no understanding; * whose mouths must be held with bit and bridle, else they will not obey thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 Great plagues remain for the ungodly; * but whoso putteth his trust in the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, mercy embraceth him on every side.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 Be glad, O ye righteous, and rejoice in the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * and be joyful, all ye that are true of heart.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 33. <i>Exultate, justi.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">REJOICE in the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, O ye righteous; * for it becometh well the just to be thankful.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Praise the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> with harp; * sing praises unto him with the lute, and instrument of ten strings.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Sing unto the Lord a new song; * sing praises lustily unto him with a good courage.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 For the word of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> is true; * and all his works are faithful.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 He loveth righteousness and judgment; * the earth is full of the goodness of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 By the word of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> were the heavens made; * and all the host of them by the breath of his mouth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 He gathereth the waters of the sea together, as it were upon an heap; * and layeth up the deep, as in a treasure-house.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Let all the earth fear the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>: * stand in awe of him, all ye that dwell in the world.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 For he spake, and it was done; * he commanded, and it stood fast.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> bringeth the counsel of the heathen to nought, * and maketh the devices of the people to be of none effect, and casteth out the counsels of princes.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 The counsel of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> shall endure for ever, * and the thoughts of his heart from generation to generation.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 Blessed are the people whose God is the Lord JEHOVAH; * and blessed are the folk that he hath chosen to him, to be his inheritance.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> looketh down from heaven, and beholdeth all the children of men; * from the habitation of his dwelling, he considereth all them that dwell on the earth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 He fashioneth all the hearts of them, * and understandeth all their works.</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 There is no king that can be saved by the multitude of an host; * neither is any mighty man delivered by much strength.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 A horse is counted but a vain thing to save a man; * neither shall he deliver any man by his great strength.</p>

  <p class="psalm">17 Behold, the eye of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> is upon them that fear him, * and upon them that put their trust in his mercy;</p>

  <p class="psalm">18 To deliver their soul from death, * and to feed them in the time of dearth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">19 Our soul hath patiently tarried for the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * for he is our help and our shield.</p>

  <p class="psalm">20 For our heart shall rejoice in him; * because we have hoped in his holy Name.</p>

  <p class="psalm">21 Let thy merciful kindness, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, be upon us, * like as we do put our trust in thee.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 34. <i>Benedicam Dominum.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">I WILL alway give thanks unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * his praise shall ever be in my mouth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 My soul shall make her boast in the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * the humble shall hear thereof, and be glad.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 O praise the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> with me, * and let us magnify his Name together.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 I sought the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, and he heard me; * yea, he delivered me out of all my fear.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 They had an eye unto him, and were lightened; * and their faces were not ashamed.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 Lo, the poor crieth, and the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> heareth him; * yea, and saveth him out of all his troubles.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 The angel of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> tarrieth round about them that fear him, * and delivereth them.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 O taste, and see, how gracious the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> is: * blessed is the man that trusteth in him.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 O fear the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, ye that are his saints; * for they that fear him lack nothing.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 The lions do lack, and suffer hunger; * but they who seek the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> shall want no manner of thing that is good.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 Come, ye children, and hearken unto me; * I will teach you the fear of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 What man is he that lusteth to live, * and would fain see good days?</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 Keep thy tongue from evil, * and thy lips, that they speak no guile.</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 Eschew evil, and do good; * seek peace, and ensue it.</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 The eyes of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> are over the righteous, * and his ears are open unto their prayers.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 The countenance of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> is against them that do evil, * to root out the remembrance of them from the earth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">17 The righteous cry, and the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> heareth them, * and delivereth them out of all their troubles.</p>

  <p class="psalm">18 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> is nigh unto them that are of a contrite heart, * and will save such as be of an humble spirit.</p>

  <p class="psalm">19 Great are the troubles of the righteous; * but the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> delivereth him out of all.</p>

  <p class="psalm">20 He keepeth all his bones, * so that not one of them is broken.</p>

  <p class="psalm">21 But misfortune shall slay the ungodly; * and they that hate the righteous shall be desolate.</p>

  <p class="psalm">22 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> delivereth the souls of his servants; * and all they that put their trust in him shall not be destitute.</p>
</body>
</html>
