<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Book of Common Prayer - 1928</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/bcp.css" />
</head>

<body>
  <h3 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_2">The Seventh Day.</h3>

  <p class="centered" id="PSM7">Morning Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 35. <i>Judica, Domine.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">PLEAD thou my cause, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, with them that strive with me, * and fight thou against them that fight against me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Lay hand upon the shield and buckler, * and stand up to help me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Bring forth the spear, and stop the way against them that pursue me: * say unto my soul, I am thy salvation.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Let them be confounded, and put to shame, that seek after my soul; * let them be turned back, and brought to confusion, that imagine mischief for me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Let them be as the dust before the wind, * and the angel of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> scattering them.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 Let their way be dark and slippery, * and let the angel of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> pursue them.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 For they have privily laid their net to destroy me without a cause; * yea, even without a cause have they made a pit for my soul.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Let a sudden destruction come upon him unawares, and his net that he hath laid privily catch himself; * that he may fall into his own mischief.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 And my soul shall be joyful in the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * it shall rejoice in his salvation.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 All my bones shall say, <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, who is like unto thee, who deliverest the poor from him that is too strong for him; * yea, the poor, and him that is in misery, from him that spoileth him?</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 False witnesses did rise up: * they laid to my charge things that I knew not.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 They rewarded me evil for good, * to the great discomfort of my soul.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 Nevertheless, when they were sick, I put on sack-cloth, and humbled my soul with fasting; * and my prayer shall turn into mine own bosom.</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 I behaved myself as though it had been my friend or my brother; * I went heavily, as one that mourneth for his mother.</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 But in mine adversity they rejoiced, and gathered themselves together; * yea, the very abjects came together against me unawares, making mouths at me, and ceased not.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 With the flatterers were busy mockers, * who gnashed upon me with their teeth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">17 Lord, how long wilt thou look upon this? * O deliver my soul from the calamities which they bring on me, and my darling from the lions.</p>

  <p class="psalm">18 So will I give thee thanks in the great congregation; * I will praise thee among much people.</p>

  <p class="psalm">19 O let not them that are mine enemies triumph over me ungodly; * neither let them wink with their eyes, that hate me without a cause.</p>

  <p class="psalm">20 And why? their communing is not for peace; * but they imagine deceitful words against them that are quiet in the land.</p>

  <p class="psalm">21 They gaped upon me with their mouths, and said, * Fie on thee! fie on thee! we saw it with our eyes.</p>

  <p class="psalm">22 This thou hast seen, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * hold not thy tongue then; go not far from me, O Lord.</p>

  <p class="psalm">23 Awake, and stand up to judge my quarrel; * avenge thou my cause, my God and my Lord.</p>

  <p class="psalm">24 Judge me, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> my God, according to thy righteousness; * and let them not triumph over me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">25 Let them not say in their hearts, There! there! so would we have it; * neither let them say, We have devoured him.</p>

  <p class="psalm">26 Let them be put to confusion and shame together, that rejoice at my trouble; * let them be clothed with rebuke and dishonour, that boast themselves against me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">27 Let them be glad and rejoice, that favour my righteous dealing; * yea, let them say alway, Blessed be the Lord, who hath pleasure in the prosperity of his servant.</p>

  <p class="psalm">28 And as for my tongue, it shall be talking of thy righteousness, * and of thy praise, all the day long.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 36. Dixit injustus.</p>

  <p class="psalm">MY heart showeth me the wickedness of the ungodly, * that there is no fear of God before his eyes.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 For he flattereth himself in his own sight, * until his abominable sin be found out.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 The words of his mouth are unrighteous and full of deceit: * he hath left off to behave himself wisely, and to do good.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 He imagineth mischief upon his bed, and hath set himself in no good way; * neither doth he abhor any thing that is evil.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Thy mercy, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, reacheth unto the heavens, * and thy faithfulness unto the clouds.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 Thy righteousness standeth like the strong mountains: * thy judgments are like the great deep.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 Thou, <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, shalt save both man and beast: how excellent is thy mercy, O God! * and the children of men shall put their trust under the shadow of thy wings.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 They shall be satisfied with the plenteousness of thy house; * and thou shalt give them drink of thy pleasures, as out of the river.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 For with thee is the well of life; * and in thy light shall we see light.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 O continue forth thy loving-kindness unto them that know thee, * and thy righteousness unto them that are true of heart.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 O let not the foot of pride come against me; * and let not the hand of the ungodly cast me down.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 There are they fallen, all that work wickedness; * they are cast down, and shall not be able to stand.</p>

  <p class="centered" id="PSE7">Evening Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 37. <i>Noli aemulari.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">FRET not thyself because of the ungodly; * neither be thou envious against the evil doers.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 For they shall soon be cut down like the grass, * and be withered even as the green herb.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Put thou thy trust in the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, and be doing good; * dwell in the land, and verily thou shalt be fed.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Delight thou in the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, * and he shall give thee thy heart’s desire.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Commit thy way unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, and put thy trust in him, * and he shall bring it to pass.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 He shall make thy righteousness as clear as the light, * and thy just dealing as the noon-day.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 Hold thee still in the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, and abide patiently upon him: * but grieve not thyself at him whose way doth prosper, against the man that doeth after evil counsels.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Leave off from wrath, and let go displeasure: * fret not thyself, else shalt thou be moved to do evil.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 Wicked doers shall be rooted out; * and they that patiently abide the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, those shall inherit the land.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 Yet a little while, and the ungodly shall be clean gone: * thou shalt look after his place, and he shall be away.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 But the meek-spirited shall possess the earth, * and shall be refreshed in the multitude of peace.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 The ungodly seeketh counsel against the just, * and gnasheth upon him with his teeth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 The Lord shall laugh him to scorn; * for he hath seen that his day is coming.</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 The ungodly have drawn out the sword, and have bent their bow, * to cast down the poor and needy, and to slay such as be upright in their ways.</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 Their sword shall go through their own heart, * and their bow shall be broken.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 A small thing that the righteous hath, * is better than great riches of the ungodly.</p>

  <p class="psalm">17 For the arms of the ungodly shall be broken, * and the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> upholdeth the righteous.</p>

  <p class="psalm">18 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> knoweth the days of the godly; * and their inheritance shall endure for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">19 They shall not be confounded in the perilous time; * and in the days of dearth they shall have enough.</p>

  <p class="psalm">20 As for the ungodly, they shall perish, and the enemies of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> shall consume as the fat of lambs: * yea, even as the smoke shall they consume away.</p>

  <p class="psalm">21 The ungodly borroweth, and payeth not again; * but the righteous is merciful and liberal.</p>

  <p class="psalm">22 Such as are blessed of God, shall possess the land; * and they that are cursed of him, shall be rooted out.</p>

  <p class="psalm">23 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> ordereth a good man’s going, * and maketh his way acceptable to himself.</p>

  <p class="psalm">24 Though he fall, he shall not be cast away; * for the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> upholdeth him with his hand.</p>

  <p class="psalm">25 I have been young, and now am old; * and yet saw I never the righteous forsaken, nor his seed begging their bread.</p>

  <p class="psalm">26 The righteous is ever merciful, and lendeth; * and his seed is blessed.</p>

  <p class="psalm">27 Flee from evil, and do the thing that is good; * and dwell for evermore.</p>

  <p class="psalm">28 For the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> loveth the thing that is right; * he forsaketh not his that be godly, but they are preserved for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">29 The unrighteous shall be punished; * as for the seed of the ungodly, it shall be rooted out.</p>

  <p class="psalm">30 The righteous shall inherit the land, * and dwell therein for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">31 The mouth of the righteous is exercised in wisdom, * and his tongue will be talking of judgment.</p>

  <p class="psalm">32 The law of his God is in his heart, * and his goings shall not slide.</p>

  <p class="psalm">33 The ungodly watcheth the righteous, * and seeketh occasion to slay him.</p>

  <p class="psalm">34 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> will not leave him in his hand, * nor condemn him when he is judged.</p>

  <p class="psalm">35 Hope thou in the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, and keep his way, and he shall promote thee, that thou shalt possess the land: * when the ungodly shall perish, thou shalt see it.</p>

  <p class="psalm">36 I myself have seen the ungodly in great power, * and flourishing like a green bay-tree.</p>

  <p class="psalm">37 I went by, and lo, he was gone: * I sought him, but his place could no where be found.</p>

  <p class="psalm">38 Keep innocency, and take heed unto the thing that is right; * for that shall bring a man peace at the last.</p>

  <p class="psalm">39 As for the transgressors, they shall perish together; * and the end of the ungodly is, they shall be rooted out at the last.</p>

  <p class="psalm">40 But the salvation of the righteous cometh of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * who is also their strength in the time of trouble.</p>

  <p class="psalm">41 And the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> shall stand by them, and save them: * he shall deliver them from the ungodly, and shall save them, because they put their trust in him.</p>
</body>
</html>
