<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Book of Common Prayer - 1928</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/bcp.css" />
</head>

<body>
  <h3 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_2">The Eighth Day</h3>

  <p class="centered" id="PSM8">Morning Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 38. <i>Domine, ne in furore.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">PUT me not to rebuke, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, in thine anger; * neither chasten me in thy heavy displeasure:</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 For thine arrows stick fast in me, * and thy hand presseth me sore.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 There is no health in my flesh, because of thy displeasure; * neither is there any rest in my bones, by reason of my sin.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 For my wickednesses are gone over my head, * and are like a sore burden, too heavy for me to bear.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 My wounds stink, and are corrupt, * through my foolishness.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 I am brought into so great trouble and misery, * that I go mourning all the day long.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 For my loins are filled with a sore disease, * and there is no whole part in my body.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 I am feeble and sore smitten; * I have roared for the very disquietness of my heart.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 Lord, thou knowest all my desire; * and my groaning is not hid from thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 My heart panteth, my strength hath failed me, * and the light of mine eyes is gone from me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 My lovers and my neighbours did stand looking upon my trouble, * and my kinsmen stood afar off.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 They also that sought after my life laid snares for me; * and they that went about to do me evil talked of wickedness, and imagined deceit all the day long.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 As for me, I was like a deaf man, and heard not; * and as one that is dumb, who doth not open his mouth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 I became even as a man that heareth not, * and in whose mouth are no reproofs.</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 For in thee, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, have I put my trust; * thou shalt answer for me, O Lord my God.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 I have required that they, even mine enemies, should not triumph over me; * for when my foot slipt, they rejoiced greatly against me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">17 And I truly am set in the plague, * and my heaviness is ever in my sight.</p>

  <p class="psalm">18 For I will confess my wickedness, * and be sorry for my sin.</p>

  <p class="psalm">19 But mine enemies live, and are mighty; * and they that hate me wrongfully are many in number.</p>

  <p class="psalm">20 They also that reward evil for good are against me; * because I follow the thing that good is.</p>

  <p class="psalm">21 Forsake me not, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> my God; * be not thou far from me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">22 Haste thee to help me, * O Lord God of my salvation.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 39. <i>Dixi, Custodiam.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">I SAID, I will take heed to my ways, * that I offend not in my tongue.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 I will keep my mouth as it were with a bridle, * while the ungodly is in my sight.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 I held my tongue, and spake nothing: * I kept silence, yea, even from good words; but it was pain and grief to me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 My heart was hot within me: and while I was thus musing the fire kindled, * and at the last I spake with my tongue:</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, let me know mine end, and the number of my days; * that I may be certified how long I have to live.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 Behold, thou hast made my days as it were a span long, and mine age is even as nothing in respect of thee; * and verily every man living is altogether vanity.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 For man walketh in a vain shadow, and disquieteth himself in vain; * he heapeth up riches, and cannot tell who shall gather them.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 And now, Lord, what is my hope? * truly my hope is even in thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 Deliver me from all mine offences; * and make me not a rebuke unto the foolish.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 I became dumb, and opened not my mouth; * for it was thy doing.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 Take thy plague away from me: * I am even consumed by the means of thy heavy hand.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 When thou with rebukes dost chasten man for sin, thou makest his beauty to consume away, like as it were a moth fretting a garment: * every man therefore is but vanity.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 Hear my prayer, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, and with thine ears consider my calling; * hold not thy peace at my tears;</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 For I am a stranger with thee, and a sojourner, * as all my fathers were.</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 O spare me a little, that I may recover my strength, * before I go hence, and be no more seen.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 40. <i>Expectans expectavi.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">I WAITED patiently for the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, * and he inclined unto me, and heard my calling.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 He brought me also out of the horrible pit, out of the mire and clay, * and set my feet upon the rock, and ordered my goings.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 And he hath put a new song in my mouth, * even a thanksgiving unto our God.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Many shall see it, and fear, * and shall put their trust in the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Blessed is the man that hath set his hope in the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, * and turned not unto the proud, and to such as go about with lies.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> my God, great are the wondrous works which thou hast done, like as be also thy thoughts, which are to us-ward; * and yet there is no man that ordereth them unto thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 If I should declare them, and speak of them, * they should be more than I am able to express.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Sacrifice and offering thou wouldest not, * but mine ears hast thou opened.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 Burnt offering and sacrifice for sin hast thou not required: * then said I, Lo, I come;</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 In the volume of the book it is written of me, that I should fulfil thy will, O my God: * I am content to do it; yea, thy law is within my heart.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 I have declared thy righteousness in the great congregation: * lo, I will not refrain my lips, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, and that thou knowest.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 I have not hid thy righteousness within my heart; * my talk hath been of thy truth, and of thy salvation.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 I have not kept back thy loving mercy and truth * from the great congregation.</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 Withdraw not thou thy mercy from me, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * let thy loving-kindness and thy truth alway preserve me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 For innumerable troubles are come about me; my sins have taken such hold upon me, that I am not able to look up; * yea, they are more in number than the hairs of my head, and my heart hath failed me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, let it be thy pleasure to deliver me; * make haste, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, to help me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">17 Let them be ashamed, and confounded together, that seek after my soul to destroy it; * let them be driven backward, and put to rebuke, that wish me evil.</p>

  <p class="psalm">18 Let them be desolate, and rewarded with shame, * that say unto me, Fie upon thee! fie upon thee!</p>

  <p class="psalm">19 Let all those that seek thee, be joyful and glad in thee; * and let such as love thy salvation, say alway, The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> be praised.</p>

  <p class="psalm">20 As for me, I am poor and needy; * but the Lord careth for me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">21 Thou art my helper and redeemer; * make no long tarrying, O my God.</p>

  <p class="centered" id="PSE8">Evening Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 41. <i>Beatus qui intelligit.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">BLESSED is he that considereth the poor and needy; * the Lord shall deliver him in the time of trouble.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> preserve him, and keep him alive, that he may be blessed upon earth; * and deliver not thou him into the will of his enemies.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> comfort him when he lieth sick upon his bed; * make thou all his bed in his sickness.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 I said, <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, be merciful unto me; * heal my soul, for I have sinned against thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Mine enemies speak evil of me, * When shall he die, and his name perish?</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 And if he come to see me, he speaketh vanity, * and his heart conceiveth falsehood within himself; and when he cometh forth, he telleth it.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 All mine enemies whisper together against me; * even against me do they imagine this evil.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 An evil disease, say they, cleaveth fast unto him; * and now that he lieth, he shall rise up no more.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 Yea, even mine own familiar friend whom I trusted, * who did also eat of my bread, hath laid great wait for me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 But be thou merciful unto me, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * raise thou me up again, and I shall reward them.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 By this I know thou favourest me, * that mine enemy doth not triumph against me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 And in my innocency thou upholdest me, * and shalt set me before thy face for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 Blessed be the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> God of Israel, * world without end. Amen.</p>

  <p class="centered">BOOK II.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 42. <i>Quemadmodum.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">LIKE as the hart desireth the water-brooks, * so longeth my soul after thee, O God.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 My soul is athirst for God, yea, even for the living God: * when shall I come to appear before the presence of God?</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 My tears have been my meat day and night, * while they daily say unto me, Where is now thy God?</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Now when I think thereupon, I pour out my heart by myself; * for I went with the multitude, and brought them forth into the house of God;</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 In the voice of praise and thanksgiving, * among such as keep holy-day.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 Why art thou so full of heaviness, O my soul? * and why art thou so disquieted within me?</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 O put thy trust in God; * for I will yet thank him, which is the help of my countenance, and my God.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 My soul is vexed within me; * therefore will I remember thee from the land of Jordan, from Hermon and the little hill.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 One deep calleth another, because of the noise of thy water-floods; * all thy waves and storms are gone over me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> will grant his loving-kindness in the daytime; * and in the night season will I sing of him, and make my prayer unto the God of my life.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 I will say unto the God of my strength, Why hast thou forgotten me? * why go I thus heavily, while the enemy oppresseth me?</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 My bones are smitten asunder as with a sword, * while mine enemies that trouble me cast me in the teeth;</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 Namely, while they say daily unto me, * Where is now thy God?</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 Why art thou so vexed, O my soul? * and why art thou so disquieted within me?</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 O put thy trust in God; * for I will yet thank him, which is the help of my countenance, and my God.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 43. <i>Judica me, Deus.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">GIVE sentence with me, O God, and defend my cause against the ungodly people; * O deliver me from the deceitful and wicked man.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 For thou art the God of my strength; why hast thou put me from thee? * and why go I so heavily, while the enemy oppresseth me?</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 O send out thy light and thy truth, that they may lead me, * and bring me unto thy holy hill, and to thy dwelling;</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 And that I may go unto the altar of God, even unto the God of my joy and gladness; * and upon the harp will I give thanks unto thee, O God, my God.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Why art thou so heavy, O my soul? * and why art thou so disquieted within me?</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 O put thy trust in God; * for I will yet give him thanks, which is the help of my countenance, and my God.</p>
</body>
</html>
