<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Book of Common Prayer - 1928</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/bcp.css" />
</head>

<body>
  <h3 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_2">The Ninth Day.</h3>

  <p class="centered" id="PSM9">Morning Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 44. <i>Deus, auribus.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">WE have heard with our ears, O God, our fathers have told us * what thou hast done in their time of old:</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 How thou hast driven out the heathen with thy hand, and planted our fathers in; * how thou hast destroyed the nations, and made thy people to flourish.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 For they gat not the land in possession through their own sword, * neither was it their own arm that helped them;</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 But thy right hand, and thine arm, and the light of thy countenance; * because thou hadst a favour unto them.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Thou art my King, O God; * send help unto Jacob.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 Through thee will we overthrow our enemies, * and in thy Name will we tread them under that rise up against us.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 For I will not trust in my bow, * it is not my sword that shall help me;</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 But it is thou that savest us from our enemies, * and puttest them to confusion that hate us.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 We make our boast of God all day long, * and will praise thy Name for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 But now thou art far off, and puttest us to confusion, * and goest not forth with our armies.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 Thou makest us to turn our backs upon our enemies, * so that they which hate us spoil our goods.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 Thou lettest us be eaten up like sheep, * and hast scattered us among the heathen.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 Thou sellest thy people for nought, * and takest no money for them.</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 Thou makest us to be rebuked of our neighbours, * to be laughed to scorn, and had in derision of them that are round about us.</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 Thou makest us to be a by-word among the nations, * and that the peoples shake their heads at us.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 My confusion is daily before me, * and the shame of my face hath covered me;</p>

  <p class="psalm">17 For the voice of the slanderer and blasphemer, * for the enemy and avenger.</p>

  <p class="psalm">18 And though all this be come upon us, yet do we not forget thee, * nor behave ourselves frowardly in thy covenant.</p>

  <p class="psalm">19 Our heart is not turned back, * neither our steps gone out of thy way;</p>

  <p class="psalm">20 No, not when thou hast smitten us into the place of dragons, * and covered us with the shadow of death.</p>

  <p class="psalm">21 If we have forgotten the Name of our God, and holden up our hands to any strange god, * shall not God search it out? for he knoweth the very secrets of the heart.</p>

  <p class="psalm">22 For thy sake also are we killed all the day long, * and are counted as sheep appointed to be slain.</p>

  <p class="psalm">23 Up, Lord, why sleepest thou? * awake, and be not absent from us for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">24 Wherefore hidest thou thy face, * and forgettest our misery and trouble?</p>

  <p class="psalm">25 For our soul is brought low, even unto the dust; * our belly cleaveth unto the ground.</p>

  <p class="psalm">26 Arise, and help us, * and deliver us, for thy mercy’s sake.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 45. <i>Eructavit cor meum.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">MY heart overfloweth with a good matter; I speak the things which I have made concerning the King. * My tongue is the pen of a ready writer.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Thou art fairer than the children of men; * full of grace are thy lips, because God hath blessed thee for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Gird thee with thy sword upon thy thigh, O thou Most Mighty, * according to thy worship and renown.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Good luck have thou with thine honour: * ride on, because of the word of truth, of meekness, and righteousness; and thy right hand shall teach thee terrible things.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Thy arrows are very sharp in the heart of the King’s enemies, * and the people shall be subdued unto thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 Thy seat, O God, endureth for ever; * the sceptre of thy kingdom is a right sceptre.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 Thou hast loved righteousness, and hated iniquity; * wherefore God, even thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 All thy garments smell of myrrh, aloes, and cassia; * out of the ivory palaces, whereby they have made thee glad.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 Kings’ daughters are among thy honourable women; * upon thy right hand doth stand the queen in a vesture of gold, wrought about with divers colours.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 Hearken, O daughter, and consider; incline thine ear; * forget also thine own people, and thy father’s house.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 So shall the King have pleasure in thy beauty; * for he is thy Lord, and worship thou him.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 And the daughter of Tyre shall be there with a gift; * like as the rich also among the people shall make their supplication before thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 The King’s daughter is all glorious within; * her clothing is of wrought gold.</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 She shall be brought unto the King in raiment of needlework: * the virgins that be her fellows shall bear her company, and shall be brought unto thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 With joy and gladness shall they be brought, * and shall enter into the King’s palace.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 Instead of thy fathers, thou shalt have children, * whom thou mayest make princes in all lands.</p>

  <p class="psalm">17 I will make thy Name to be remembered from one generation to another; * therefore shall the people give thanks unto thee, world without end.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 46. <i>Deus noster refugium.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">GOD is our hope and strength, * a very present help in trouble.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Therefore will we not fear, though the earth be moved, * and though the hills be carried into the midst of the sea;</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Though the waters thereof rage and swell, * and though the mountains shake at the tempest of the same.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 There is a river, the streams whereof make glad the city of God; * the holy place of the tabernacle of the Most Highest.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 God is in the midst of her, therefore shall she not be removed; * God shall help her, and that right early.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 The nations make much ado, and the kingdoms are moved; * but God hath showed his voice, and the earth shall melt away.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 The Lord of hosts is with us; * the God of Jacob is our refuge.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 O come hither, and behold the works of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, * what destruction he hath brought upon the earth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 He maketh wars to cease in all the world; * he breaketh the bow, and knappeth the spear in sunder, and burneth the chariots in the fire.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 Be still then, and know that I am God: * I will be exalted among the nations, and I will be exalted in the earth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> of hosts is with us; * the God of Jacob is our refuge.</p>

  <p class="centered" id="PSE9">Evening Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 47. <i>Omnes gentes, plaudite.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">CLAP your hands together, all ye peoples: * O sing unto God with the voice of melody.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 For the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> is high, and to be feared; * he is the great King upon all the earth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 He shall subdue the peoples under us, * and the nations under our feet.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 He shall choose out an heritage for us, * even the excellency of Jacob, whom he loved.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 God is gone up with a merry noise, * and the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> with the sound of the trump.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 O sing praises, sing praises unto our God; * O sing praises, sing praises unto our King.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 For God is the King of all the earth: * sing ye praises with understanding.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 God reigneth over the nations; * God sitteth upon his holy seat.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 The princes of the peoples are joined unto the people of the God of Abraham; * for God, which is very high exalted, doth defend the earth, as it were with a shield.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 48. <i>Magnus Dominus.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">GREAT is the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, and highly to be praised * in the city of our God, even upon his holy hill.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 The hill of Sion is a fair place, and the joy of the whole earth; * upon the north side lieth the city of the great King: God is well known in her palaces as a sure refuge.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 For lo, the kings of the earth * were gathered, and gone by together.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 They marvelled to see such things; * they were astonished, and suddenly cast down.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Fear came there upon them; and sorrow, * as upon a woman in her travail.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 Thou dost break the ships of the sea * through the east wind.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 Like as we have heard, so have we seen in the city of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> of hosts, in the city of our God; * God upholdeth the same for ever.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 We wait for thy loving-kindness, O God, * in the midst of thy temple.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 O God, according to thy Name, so is thy praise unto the world’s end; * thy right hand is full of righteousness.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 Let the mount Sion rejoice, and the daughters of Judah be glad, * because of thy judgments.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 Walk about Sion, and go round about her; * and tell the towers thereof.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 Mark well her bulwarks, consider her palaces, * that ye may tell them that come after.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 For this God is our God for ever and ever: * he shall be our guide unto death.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 49. <i>Audite haec, omnes.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">O HEAR ye this, all ye people; * ponder it with your ears, all ye that dwell in the world;</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 High and low, rich and poor, * one with another.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 My mouth shall speak of wisdom, * and my heart shall muse of understanding.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 I will incline mine ear to the parable, * and show my dark speech upon the harp.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Wherefore should I fear in the days of evil, * when wickedness at my heels compasseth me round about?</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 There be some that put their trust in their goods, * and boast themselves in the multitude of their riches.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 But no man may deliver his brother, * nor give a ransom unto God for him,</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 (For it cost more to redeem their souls, * so that he must let that alone for ever;)</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 That he shall live alway, * and not see the grave.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 For he seeth that wise men also die and perish together, * as well as the ignorant and foolish, and leave their riches for other.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 And yet they think that their houses shall continue for ever, and that their dwelling-places shall endure from one generation to another; * and call the lands after their own names.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 Nevertheless, man being in honour abideth not, * seeing he may be compared unto the beasts that perish;</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 This their way is very foolishness; * yet their posterity praise their saying.</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 They lie in the grave like sheep; death is their shepherd; and the righteous shall have dominion over them in the morning: * their beauty shall consume in the sepulchre, and have no abiding.</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 But God hath delivered my soul from the power of the grave; * for he shall receive me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 Be not thou afraid, though one be made rich, * or if the glory of his house be increased;</p>

  <p class="psalm">17 For he shall carry nothing away with him when he dieth, * neither shall his pomp follow him.</p>

  <p class="psalm">18 For while he lived, he counted himself an happy man; * and so long as thou doest well unto thyself, men will speak good of thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">19 He shall follow the generation of his fathers, * and shall never see light.</p>

  <p class="psalm">20 Man that is in honour but hath no understanding * is compared unto the beasts that perish.</p>
</body>
</html>
