<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Book of Common Prayer - 1928</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/bcp.css" />
</head>

<body>
  <h1 title="The Psalter, or Psalms of David" id="heading_id_2">The Psalter or Psalms&nbsp;of&nbsp;David</h1>

  <h3 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_3">The First Day.</h3>

  <p class="centered" id="PSM1">Morning Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">BOOK I.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 1. <i>Beatus vir qui non abiit.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">BLESSED is the man that hath not walked in the counsel of the ungodly, nor stood in the way of sinners, * and hath not sat in the seat of the scornful.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 But his delight is in the law of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * and in his law will he exercise himself day and night.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 And he shall be like a tree planted by the water-side, * that will bring forth his fruit in due season.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 His leaf also shall not wither; * and look, whatsoever he doeth, it shall prosper.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 As for the ungodly, it is not so with them; * but they are like the chaff, which the wind scattereth away from the face of the earth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 Therefore the ungodly shall not be able to stand in the judgment, * neither the sinners in the congregation of the righteous.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 But the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> knoweth the way of the righteous; * and the way of the ungodly shall perish.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 2. <i>Quare fremuerunt gentes?</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">WHY do the heathen so furiously rage together? * and why do the people imagine a vain thing?</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 The kings of the earth stand up, and the rulers take counsel together * against the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, and against his Anointed:</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Let us break their bonds asunder, * and cast away their cords from us.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 He that dwelleth in heaven shall laugh them to scorn: * the Lord shall have them in derision.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Then shall he speak unto them in his wrath, * and vex them in his sore displeasure:</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 Yet have I set my King * upon my holy hill of Sion.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 I will rehearse the decree; * the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> hath said unto me, Thou art my Son, this day have I begotten thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Desire of me, and I shall give thee the nations for thine inheritance, * and the utmost parts of the earth for thy possession.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 Thou shalt bruise them with a rod of iron, * and break them in pieces like a potter’s vessel.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 Be wise now therefore, O ye kings; * be instructed, ye that are judges of the earth.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 Serve the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> in fear, * and rejoice unto him with reverence.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 Kiss the Son, lest he be angry, and so ye perish from the right way, if his wrath be kindled, yea but a little. * Blessed are all they that put their trust in him.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 3. <i>Domine, quid multiplicati?</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">LORD, how are they increased that trouble me! * many are they that rise against me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Many one there be that say of my soul, * There is no help for him in his God.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 But thou, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, art my defender; * thou art my worship, and the lifter up of my head.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 I did call upon the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> with my voice, * and he heard me out of his holy hill.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 I laid me down and slept, and rose up again; * for the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> sustained me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 I will not be afraid for ten thousands of the people, * that have set themselves against me round about.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 Up, <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, and help me, O my God, * for thou smitest all mine enemies upon the cheek-bone; thou hast broken the teeth of the ungodly.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Salvation belongeth unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * and thy blessing is upon thy people.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 4. <i>Cum invocarem.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">HEAR me when I call, O God of my righteousness: * thou hast set me at liberty when I was in trouble; have mercy upon me, and hearken unto my prayer.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 O ye sons of men, how long will ye blaspheme mine honour, * and have such pleasure in vanity, and seek after falsehood?</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 Know this also, that the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> hath chosen to himself the man that is godly; * when I call upon the Lord he will hear me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Stand in awe, and sin not; * commune with your own heart, and in your chamber, and be still.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Offer the sacrifice of righteousness, * and put your trust in the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 There be many that say, * Who will show us any good?</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, lift thou up* the light of thy countenance upon us.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Thou hast put gladness in my heart; * yea, more than when their corn and wine and oil increase.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 I will lay me down in peace, and take my rest; * for it is thou, <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, only, that makest me dwell in safety.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 5. <i>Verba mea auribus.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">PONDER my words, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, * consider my meditation.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 O hearken thou unto the voice of my calling, my King and my God: * for unto thee will I make my prayer.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 My voice shalt thou hear betimes, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>; * early in the morning will I direct my prayer unto thee, and will look up.</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 For thou art the God that hast no pleasure in wickedness; * neither shall any evil dwell with thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Such as be foolish shall not stand in thy sight; * for thou hatest all them that work iniquity.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 Thou shalt destroy them that speak lies: * the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> will abhor both the bloodthirsty and deceitful man.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 But as for me, in the multitude of thy mercy I will come into thine house; * and in thy fear will I worship toward thy holy temple.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Lead me, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, in thy righteousness, because of mine enemies; * make thy way plain before my face.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 For there is no faithfulness in their mouth; * their inward parts are very wickedness.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 Their throat is an open sepulchre; * they flatter with their tongue.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 Destroy thou them, O God; let them perish through their own imaginations; * cast them out in the multitude of their ungodliness; for they have rebelled against thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 And let all them that put their trust in thee rejoice: * they shall ever be giving of thanks, because thou defendest them; they that love thy Name shall be joyful in thee;</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 For thou, <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, wilt give thy blessing unto the righteous, * and with thy favourable kindness wilt thou defend him as with a shield.</p>

  <p class="centered" id="PSE1">Evening Prayer.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 6. <i>Domine, ne in furore.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">O LORD, rebuke me not in thine indignation, * neither chasten me in thy displeasure.</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Have mercy upon me, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, for I am weak; * O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, heal me, for my bones are vexed.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 My soul also is sore troubled: * but, <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, how long wilt thou punish me?</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 Turn thee, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, and deliver my soul; * O save me, for thy mercy’s sake.</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 For in death no man remembereth thee; * and who will give thee thanks in the pit?</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 I am weary of my groaning; * every night wash I my bed, and water my couch with my tears.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 My beauty is gone for very trouble, * and worn away because of all mine enemies.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 Away from me, all ye that work iniquity; * for the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> hath heard the voice of my weeping.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> hath heard my petition; * the Lord will receive my prayer.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 All mine enemies shall be confounded, and sore vexed; * they shall be turned back, and put to shame suddenly.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 7. <i>Domine, Deus meus.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">O LORD my God, in thee have I put my trust: * save me from all them that persecute me, and deliver me;</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Lest he devour my soul like a lion, and tear it in pieces, * while there is none to help.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> my God, if I have done any such thing; * or if there be any wickedness in my hands;</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 If I have rewarded evil unto him that dealt friendly with me; * (yea, I have delivered him that without any cause is mine enemy;)</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Then let mine enemy persecute my soul, and take me; * yea, let him tread my life down upon the earth, and lay mine honour in the dust.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 Stand up, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, in thy wrath, and lift up thyself, because of the indignation of mine enemies; * arise up for me in the judgment that thou hast commanded.</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 And so shall the congregation of the peoples come about thee: * for their sakes therefore lift up thyself again.</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> shall judge the peoples: give sentence with me, O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, * according to my righteousness, and according to the innocency that is in me.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 O let the wickedness of the ungodly come to an end; * but guide thou the just.</p>

  <p class="psalm">10 For the righteous God * trieth the very hearts and reins.</p>

  <p class="psalm">11 My help cometh of God, * who preserveth them that are true of heart.</p>

  <p class="psalm">12 God is a righteous Judge, strong, and patient; * and God is provoked every day.</p>

  <p class="psalm">13 If a man will not turn, he will whet his sword; * he hath bent his bow, and made it ready.</p>

  <p class="psalm">14 He hath prepared for him the instruments of death; * he ordaineth his arrows against the persecutors.</p>

  <p class="psalm">15 Behold, the ungodly travaileth with iniquity; * he hath conceived mischief, and brought forth falsehood.</p>

  <p class="psalm">16 He hath graven and digged up a pit, * and is fallen himself into the destruction that he made for other.</p>

  <p class="psalm">17 For his travail shall come upon his own head, * and his wickedness shall fall on his own pate.</p>

  <p class="psalm">18 I will give thanks unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, according to his righteousness; * and I will praise the Name of the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> Most High.</p>

  <p class="centered">Psalm 8. <i>Domine, Dominus noster.</i></p>

  <p class="psalm">O LORD our Governor, how excellent is thy Name in all the world; * thou that hast set thy glory above the heavens!</p>

  <p class="psalm">2 Out of the mouth of very babes and sucklings hast thou ordained strength, because of thine enemies, * that thou mightest still the enemy and the avenger.</p>

  <p class="psalm">3 When I consider thy heavens, even the work of thy fingers; * the moon and the stars which thou hast ordained;</p>

  <p class="psalm">4 What is man, that thou art mindful of him? * and the son of man, that thou visitest him?</p>

  <p class="psalm">5 Thou madest him lower than the angels, * to crown him with glory and worship.</p>

  <p class="psalm">6 Thou makest him to have dominion of the works of thy hands; * and thou hast put all things in subjection under his feet:</p>

  <p class="psalm">7 All sheep and oxen; * yea, and the beasts of the field;</p>

  <p class="psalm">8 The fowls of the air, and the fishes of the sea; * and whatsoever walketh through the paths of the seas.</p>

  <p class="psalm">9 O <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> our Governor, * how excellent is thy Name in all the world!</p>
</body>
</html>
