<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Book of Common Prayer - 1928</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/bcp.css" />
</head>

<body>
  <h3 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_2">SECOND OFFICE.</h3>

  <ul>
    <li><i>After the singing of a Hymn, there shall be said the following Sentence by the Minister and People together.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>COME ye, and let us walk in the light of the Lord. And he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths.</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Minister.</i> Show thy servants thy work;</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>People.</i> And their children thy glory.</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Minister.</i> Let thy merciful kindness, O Lord, be upon us;</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>People.</i> As we do put our trust in thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Minister.</i> Not unto us, O Lord, not unto us,</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>People.</i> But unto thy Name be the praise.</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Minister.</i> Lord, hear our prayer.</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>People.</i> And let our cry come unto thee.</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Minister.</i> The Lord be with you.</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>People.</i> And with thy spirit.</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Minister.</i> Let us pray.</p>

  <p>O ALMIGHTY God, who hast built thy Church upon the foundation of the Apostles and Prophets, Jesus Christ himself being the head cornerstone; Grant us so to be joined together in unity of spirit by their doctrine, that we may be made an holy temple acceptable unto thee; through the same Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Here may be sung a Hymn, after which, the People being seated, the Minister shall ask them the Questions concerning the Church which follow, the People responding.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p class="versicle">WHEN were you made a member of the Church?</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> I was made a member of the Church when I was baptized.</p>

  <p class="versicle"><i>Question.</i> What is the Church?</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> The Church is the Body of which Jesus Christ is the Head, and all baptized people are the members.</p>

  <p class="versicle"><i>Question.</i> How is the Church described in the Apostles’ and Nicene Creeds?</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> The Church is described in the Creeds as One, Holy, Catholic, and Apostolic.</p>

  <p class="versicle"><i>Question.</i> What do we mean by these words?</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> We mean that the Church is</p>

  <p class="psalm">One; because it is one Body under one Head;</p>

  <p class="psalm">Holy; because the Holy Spirit dwells in it, and sanctifies its members;</p>

  <p class="psalm">Catholic; because it is universal, holding earnestly the Faith for all time, in all countries, and for all people; and is sent to preach the Gospel to the whole world;</p>

  <p class="psalm">Apostolic; because it continues stedfastly in the Apostles’ teaching and fellowship.</p>

  <p class="versicle"><i>Question.</i> What is your bounden duty as a member of the Church?</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> My bounden duty is to follow Christ, to worship God every Sunday in his Church; and to work and pray and give for the spread of his kingdom.</p>

  <p class="versicle"><i>Question.</i> What special means does the Church provide to help you to do all these things?</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> The Church provides the Laying on of Hands, or Confirmation, wherein, after renewing the promises and vows of my Baptism, and declaring my loyalty and devotion to Christ as my Master, I receive the strengthening gifts of the Holy Spirit.</p>

  <p class="versicle"><i>Question.</i> After you have been confirmed, what great privilege doth our Lord provide for you?</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> Our Lord provides the Sacrament of the Lord’s Supper, or Holy Communion, for the continual strengthening and refreshing of my soul.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>After another Hymn, the Minister shall proceed with the Questions on the Sacraments, as followeth.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p class="versicle">HOW many Sacraments hath Christ ordained in his Church?</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> Christ hath ordained two Sacraments only, as generally necessary to salvation; that is to say, Baptism, and the Supper of the Lord.</p>

  <p class="versicle"><i>Question.</i> What do you mean by this word Sacrament?</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> I mean by this word Sacrament an outward and visible sign of an inward and spiritual grace given unto us; ordained by Christ himself, as a means whereby we receive this grace, and a pledge to assure us thereof.</p>

  <p class="versicle"><i>Question.</i> How many parts are there in a Sacrament?</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> There are two parts in a Sacrament; the outward and visible sign, and the inward and spiritual grace.</p>

  <p class="versicle"><i>Question.</i> What is the outward and visible sign or form in Baptism?</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> The outward and visible sign or form in Baptism is Water; wherein the person is baptized, In the Name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost.</p>

  <p class="versicle"><i>Question.</i> What is the inward and spiritual grace in Baptism?</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> The inward and spiritual grace in Baptism is a death unto sin, and a new birth unto righteousness; whereby we are made the children of grace.</p>

  <p class="versicle"><i>Question.</i> What is required of persons to be baptized?</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> Repentance, whereby they forsake sin; and Faith, whereby they stedfastly believe the promises of God to them in that Sacrament.</p>

  <p class="versicle"><i>Question.</i> Why then are infants baptized, when by reason of their tender age they cannot perform them?</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> Because, by the faith of their Sponsors, infants are received into Christ’s Church, become the recipients of his grace, and are trained in the household of faith.</p>

  <p class="versicle">Question. Why was the Sacrament of the Lord’s Supper ordained?</p>

  <p class="psalm">Answer. The Sacrament of the Lord’s Supper was ordained for the continual remembrance of the sacrifice of the death of Christ, and of the benefits which we receive thereby.</p>

  <p class="versicle"><i>Question.</i> What is the outward part or sign of the Lord’s Supper?</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> The outward part or sign of the Lord’s Supper is, Bread and Wine, which the Lord hath commanded to be received.</p>

  <p class="versicle"><i>Question.</i> What is the inward part, or thing signified?</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> The inward part, or thing signified, is the Body and Blood of Christ, which are spiritually taken and received by the faithful in the Lord’s Supper.</p>

  <p class="versicle"><i>Question.</i> What are the benefits whereof we are partakers in the Lord’s Supper?</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> The benefits whereof we are partakers in the Lord’s Supper are the strengthening and refreshing of our souls by the Body and Blood of Christ, as our bodies are strengthened and refreshed by the Bread and Wine.</p>

  <p class="versicle"><i>Question.</i> What is required of those who come to the Lord’s Supper?</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> It is required of those who come to the Lord’s Supper to examine themselves, whether they repent them truly of their former sins, with stedfast purpose to lead a new life; to have a lively faith in God’s mercy through Christ, with a thankful remembrance of his death; and to be in charity with all men.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Here may be sung a Hymn, after which the Minister shall ask the People the following Questions concerning the Ministry, the People responding.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p class="versicle">WHAT orders of Ministers are there in the Church?</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> Bishops, Priests, and Deacons; which orders have been in the Church from the earliest times.</p>

  <p class="versicle"><i>Question.</i> What is the office of a Bishop?</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> The office of a Bishop is, to be a chief pastor in the Church; to confer Holy Orders; and to administer Confirmation.</p>

  <p class="versicle"><i>Question.</i> What is the office of a Priest?</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> The office of a Priest is, to minister to the people committed to his care; to preach the Word of God; to baptize; to celebrate the Holy Communion; and to pronounce Absolution and Blessing in God’s Name.</p>

  <p class="versicle"><i>Question.</i> What is the office of a Deacon?</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>Answer.</i> The office of a Deacon is, to assist the Priest in Divine Service, and in his other ministrations, under the direction of the Bishop.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Then shall the Minister add,</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p class="psalm">The Lord be with you.</p>

  <p class="psalm"><i>People.</i> And with thy spirit.</p>

  <p>Let us pray.</p>

  <p>GRANT, O Lord, that they who shall renew the promises and vows of their Baptism, and be confirmed by the Bishop, may receive such a measure of thy Holy Spirit, that they may grow in grace unto their life’s end; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.</p>

  <p>GRANT, O Father, that when we receive the blessed Sacrament of the Body and Blood of Christ, coming to those holy mysteries in faith, and love, and true repentance, we may receive remission of our sins, and be filled with thy grace and heavenly benediction; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.</p>

  <p>THE grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, and the love of God, and the fellowship of the Holy Ghost, be with us all evermore. Amen.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><i>The Minister of every Parish shall diligently, upon Sundays and Holy Days, or on some other convenient occasions, openly in the Church, instruct or examine the Youth of his Parish.</i></li>

    <li><i>And all Fathers, Mothers, Guardians, and Sponsors shall bring those, for whose religious nurture they are responsible, to the Church at the time appointed, to receive instruction by the Minister.</i></li>

    <li><i>So soon as Children are come to a competent age, and can say the Creed, the Lord’s Prayer, and the Ten Commandments and are sufficiently instructed in the matter contained in these Offices they shall be brought to the Bishop to be confirmed by him.</i></li>
  </ul>
</body>
</html>
