<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Book of Common Prayer - 1928</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/bcp.css" />
</head>

<body>
  <h1 title="Tables of Precedence" id="heading_id_2">TABLES OF PRECEDENCE.</h1>

  <p>The Holy Days following have precedence of any other Sunday or Holy Day:</p>

  <p class="small block">The Sundays in Advent<br />
  Christmas Day<br />
  The Epiphany<br />
  Septuagesima Sunday<br />
  Sexagesima Sunday<br />
  Quinquagesima Sunday<br />
  Ash Wednesday<br />
  The Sundays in Lent<br />
  All the days of Holy Week<br />
  Easter Day; and the seven following days<br />
  Rogation Sunday<br />
  The Ascension Day; and the Sunday after Ascension Day<br />
  Whitsunday; and the six following days<br />
  Trinity Sunday</p>

  <p class="small">If any other Holy Day fall on any day noted in the preceding Table, the observance of such Holy Day shall be transferred to the first convenient open day.</p>

  <p>The following Holy Days have precedence of days not noted in the foregoing Table:</p>

  <p class="small block">St. Stephen, Deacon and Martyr<br />
  St. John, Apostle and Evangelist<br />
  The Holy Innocents<br />
  The Circumcision of Christ<br />
  The Conversion of St. Paul<br />
  The Purification of St. Mary the Virgin<br />
  St. John Baptist<br />
  All Feasts of Apostles or Evangelists<br />
  The Transfiguration of Christ<br />
  St. Michael and all Angels<br />
  All Saints</p>

  <p class="small">On these Holy Days the Collect, Epistle, and Gospel for the Feast shall be used; but on Sundays the Collect for the Feast shall be followed by the Collect for the Sunday.</p>

  <p class="centered">A TABLE OF THOSE DAYS OR OCCASIONS FOR WHICH COLLECT, EPISTLE, AND GOSPEL ARE PROVIDED IN THIS BOOK AND WHICH, NOT BEING FIXED DAYS, DO NOT APPEAR IN THE&nbsp;CALENDAR.</p>

  <p class="small block">The Ember Days<br />
  The Rogation Days<br />
  Thanksgiving Day<br />
  A Saint’s Day<br />
  Feast of the Dedication of a Church<br />
  The Solemnization of Matrimony<br />
  The Burial of the Dead</p>
</body>
</html>
