<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Book of Common Prayer - 1928</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/bcp.css" />
</head>

<body>
  <h1 title="Tables and Rules for the Movable and Immovable Feasts" id="heading_id_2">Tables and Rules for the Movable and Immovable&nbsp;Feasts,</h1>

  <h2 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_3">Together with the Days of Fasting and Abstinence, through the Whole&nbsp;Year.</h2>

  <p class="centered">RULES TO KNOW WHEN THE MOVABLE&nbsp;FEASTS AND HOLY&nbsp;DAYS&nbsp;BEGIN.</p>

  <p>EASTER DAY, on which the rest depend, is always the First Sunday after the Full Moon, which happens upon or next after the Twenty-first Day of March; and if the Full Moon happen upon a Sunday, Easter Day is the Sunday after.</p>

  <p>But <span class="smallcaps">Note</span>, That the Full Moon, for the purposes of these Rules and Tables, is the Fourteenth Day of a Lunar Month, reckoned according to an ancient Ecclesiastical computation, and not the real or Astronomical Full Moon.</p>

  <p class="small block">Advent Sunday is always the nearest Sunday to the Feast of St. Andrew, whether before or after.<br />
  Septuagesima Sunday is Nine Weeks before Easter.<br />
  Sexagesima Sunday is Eight Weeks before Easter.<br />
  Quinquagesima Sunday is Seven Weeks before Easter.<br />
  Quadragesima Sunday is Six Weeks before Easter.<br />
  Rogation Sunday is Five Weeks after Easter.<br />
  Ascension Day is Forty Days after Easter.<br />
  Whitsunday is Seven Weeks after Easter.<br />
  Trinity Sunday is Eight Weeks after Easter.</p>

  <p class="centered">A TABLE OF FEASTS,</p>

  <p class="small centered">TO BE OBSERVED IN THIS CHURCH THROUGHOUT THE&nbsp;YEAR.</p>

  <p class="small block">All Sundays in the Year<br />
  The Circumcision of our Lord <span class="smallcaps">Jesus Christ</span><br />
  The Epiphany<br />
  The Conversion of St. Paul<br />
  The Purification of the Blessed Virgin<br />
  St. Matthias the Apostle<br />
  The Annunciation of the Blessed Virgin<br />
  St. Mark the Evangelist<br />
  St. Philip and St. James, Apostles<br />
  The Ascension of our Lord <span class="smallcaps">Jesus Christ</span><br />
  St. Barnabas the Apostle<br />
  The Nativity of St. John Baptist<br />
  St. Peter the Apostle<br />
  St. James the Apostle<br />
  The Transfiguration of our Lord <span class="smallcaps">Jesus Christ</span><br />
  St. Bartholomew the Apostle<br />
  St. Matthew, Apostle and Evangelist<br />
  St. Michael and all Angels<br />
  St. Luke the Evangelist<br />
  St. Simon and St. Jude, Apostles<br />
  All Saints<br />
  St. Andrew the Apostle<br />
  St. Thomas the Apostle<br />
  The Nativity of our Lord <span class="smallcaps">Jesus Christ</span><br />
  St. Stephen, Deacon and Martyr<br />
  St. John, Apostle and Evangelist<br />
  The Holy Innocents<br />
  Monday and Tuesday in Easter Week<br />
  Monday and Tuesday in Whitsun Week</p>

  <p class="centered">A TABLE OF FASTS.</p>

  <p class="small block">Ash Wednesday<br />
  Good Friday</p>

  <p class="centered">OTHER DAYS OF FASTING, ON WHICH THE CHURCH REQUIRES SUCH A MEASURE OF ABSTINENCE AS IS MORE ESPECIALLY SUITED TO EXTRAORDINARY ACTS AND EXERCISES OF&nbsp;DEVOTION.</p>

  <ol class="roman small">
    <li>The Forty Days of Lent.</li>

    <li>The Ember Days at the Four Seasons, being the Wednesday, Friday, and Saturday after the First Sunday in Lent, the Feast of Pentecost, September 14, and December 13.</li>

    <li>All the Fridays in the Year, except Christmas Day, and The Epiphany, or any Friday which may intervene between these Feasts.</li>
  </ol>

  <p class="centered">DAYS OF SOLEMN SUPPLICATION.</p>

  <div class="small">
    <p>The three Rogation Days, being the Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday before Holy Thursday, or the Ascension of our Lord.</p>
  </div>
</body>
</html>
