<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Book of Common Prayer - 1928</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/bcp.css" />
</head>

<body>
  <h3 title="Thanksgiving Day" class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_101">Thanksgiving Day</h3>

  <ul>
    <li><i>Instead of the Venite, the following shall be said or sung.</i></li>
  </ul>

  <p>O PRAISE the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, for it is a good thing to sing praises unto our God; * yea, a joyful and pleasant thing it is to be thankful.</p>

  <p>The <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> doth build up Jerusalem, * and gather together the outcasts of Israel.</p>

  <p>He healeth those that are broken in heart, * and giveth medicine to heal their sickness.</p>

  <p>O sing unto the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span> with thanksgiving; * sing praises upon the harp unto our God:</p>

  <p>Who covereth the heaven with clouds, and prepareth rain for the earth; * and maketh the grass to grow upon the mountains, and herb for the use of men;</p>

  <p>Who giveth fodder unto the cattle, * and feedeth the young ravens that call upon him.</p>

  <p>Praise the <span class="smallcaps">Lord</span>, O Jerusalem; * praise thy God, O Sion.</p>

  <p>For he hath made fast the bars of thy gates, * and hath blessed thy children within thee.</p>

  <p>He maketh peace in thy borders, * and filleth thee with the flour of wheat.</p>

  <p>Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost;</p>

  <p>As it was in the beginning, is now, and ever shall be, * world without end. Amen.</p>

  <p class="centered italic">The Collect.</p>

  <p>O MOST merciful Father, who hast blessed the labours of the husbandman in the returns of the fruits of the earth; We give thee humble and hearty thanks for this thy bounty; beseeching thee to continue thy loving-kindness to us, that our land may still yield her increase, to thy glory and our comfort; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.</p>

  <p class="centered"><i>The Epistle.</i> St. James i. 16.</p>

  <p>DO not err, my beloved brethren. Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, and cometh down from the Father of lights, with whom is no variableness, neither shadow of turning. Of his own will begat he us with the word of truth, that we should be a kind of firstfruits of his creatures. Wherefore, my beloved brethren, let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak, slow to wrath: for the wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God. Wherefore lay apart all filthiness and superfluity of naughtiness, and receive with meekness the engrafted word, which is able to save your souls. But be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves. For if any be a hearer of the word, and not a doer, he is like unto a man beholding his natural face in a glass: for he beholdeth himself, and goeth his way, and straightway forgetteth what manner of man he was. But whoso looketh into the perfect law of liberty, and continueth therein, he being not a forgetful hearer, but a doer of the work, this man shall be blessed in his deed. If any man among you seem to be religious, and bridleth not his tongue, but deceiveth his own heart, this man’s religion is vain. Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, To visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world.</p>

  <p class="centered"><i>The Gospel.</i> St. Matthew vi. 25.</p>

  <p>JESUS said, Be not anxious for your life, what ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink; nor yet for your body, what ye shall put on. Is not the life more than food, and the body than raiment? Behold the fowls of the air: for they sow not, neither do they reap, nor gather into barns; yet your heavenly Father feedeth them. Are ye not much better than they? Which of you by being anxious can add one cubit unto the measure of his life? And why are ye anxious for raiment? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow; they toil not, neither do they spin: and yet I say unto you, That even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. Wherefore, if God so clothe the grass of the field, which today is, and tomorrow is cast into the oven, shall he not much more clothe you, O ye of little faith? Therefore be not anxious, saying, What shall we eat? or, What shall we drink? or, Wherewithal shall we be clothed? (For after all these things do the Gentiles seek:) for your heavenly Father knoweth that ye have need of all these things. But seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you. Be not therefore anxious for the morrow: for the morrow shall take thought for the things of itself. Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof.</p>
</body>
</html>
